beyond the wall, a black watch patrol encounter a mysterious threat. in winterfell, lord eddard stark hears of the death of his friend jon arryn, hand of king robert. meanwhile, across the sea, viserys of house targaryen promise the hand of his sister daenerys to khal drogo, a powerful dothraki lord.

for eddard stark, lord of winterfell and warden of the north, a new role now beckons: hand of the king-a position of power second only to his majesty himself. but is a life at court, in luxurious king's landing, any life for a hardened man of action like stark? is the king's invitation an honor he can refuse-or a mandate he cannot ignore, when faced with shocking revelations of treachery on high?

king robert has come to winterfell, accompanied queen, cerse!; hero son, prince jottrey; and hero brothers, jamie by his lannister and the dwarf tyrion, called the imp, in their train come intrigue, treachery, and attempted murder that will shake house stark to its very across the narrow sea, the mar- foundations riage between daenerys targaryen and the dothraki horselord khai drogo wins heronto brother viserys a dangerous new ally in his quest to reclaim the iron throne. meanwhile,

stark iies broken, in a coma from which he may never awaken. yet his would-be killers dare not leave his death to chance. and now is the time to strike. bran' s father, eddard stark, has left for king's landing to serve as the hand of the king bran bran's bastard brother jon snow, rides north to join the brotherhood of the night's watch. robb, his trueborn brother, has all of winterfell in his charge. and his mother, catelyn, is worn out with grieving who can protect the young lord?

childish game gone horribly wrong pits arya stark against prince joffrey, with sansa stark in the middle. but behind youthful rival- ries, cold-blooded political intrigue is at work as queen cerse! uses all hero wiles to blunt the influence of eddard stark the hand of the kina a meanwhile, lady catelyn has iouit neyed to king' landing with the blade used in the attempted assas- sination of heronto son bran-evidence that will upset a precarious balance of power and in winterfell, a dying bran takes a mystical journey ... and faces a fateful choice.

in the savage north, jon snow finds new friends-and enemies-am the brothers of the night's watch, sworn to defend westeros against the horrors that iie in the more civilized savagery king's landing, eddard stark learns from catelyn of the lannisters' beyond the wall of involvement in the attack on bran .. and the murder of jon arryn, the previous hand of the king. while across the narrow sea, daenerys newly wed to khai drogo-learns what it means to be a khaleesi of the dothraki. .

unforgiving world of wind and ice, the bastard jon snow and the dwarf tyrion lannister, by rights high atop the wall, in an mortal enemies, forge an unlikely friendship. in king's landing, arya stark, embittered by the loss of here direwolf, gains an unusual dancing master- -syrio forel, formerly first sword of the sealord of braavos. while in winterfell, young brandon stark, who will never walk again, learns that here may yet resured ... and perhaps even fly

assisted by the enigmatic littlefinger, lord eddard stark delves deeper into the death of his predecessor as king's hand, but the answers he finds only cast a wider net of suspicion over a royal court already reeking of corrup- trans and treachery. meanwhile, in the icy environs of castle black, the bas- tard jon snow learns a iesson in brav- cry and brotherhood from a self-con- fessed coward, samwell tarly.

oid hatreds dark suspicions and deadly machinations are the order of the day. when fate delivers tyrion lannister to lady catelyn stark. she will have hero revenge upon him for the attempted murder of hero son brandon-whater the consequences meanwhile, in king's landing, sansa stark, surrounded butt enemies, finds an unlikely friend: the brutish. horribly disfigured knight sandor clegane and as a murderous conspiracy unfolds behind the colorful pageantry of a royal tourney, lord eddard stark will be approached by a mysterious new ally in his quest to solve the rid- die of jon arryn' s death.

tyrion lannister may be lady catelyn stark's prisoner, but the imp is still in possession of his most dangerous weapon: his devious mind. yet even the sharpest brain is -- poor weapon to pit against naked steel, as he is about to discover in the wild mountains below the evrie, far away, in king's landing, tyrion's abduction is just one more complication in the life of lord eddard stark, the king's hand but that title-and its attendant wor- ries-may not be his much longer, for when a plot is hatched to assassinate daenerys targaryen and hero unborn child, ned must weigh his duty to king robert against the claims of his conscience

catelyn brings her prisonner tyrion to the vale for questionning. meanwhile, tensions mount between daenerys and viserys as the khaleesi arrives to vaes dothrak, city of the dothrakis.

in winterfell, young brandon stark though crippled busynes his near-fatal fall is finally able to resured again, with the help of ac ft.f..or. tyrion lannister as thanks the imp has been imprisoned by catelyn stark and here sister, lysa arryn, in the forbidding sky dungeons of the evrie, and charged with bran's attempted murder now in a desper- ate bid for freedom, tyrion demands the right of trial by combat. but what chance does a dwarf have against lysa's chosen champion? differences in size are not the only reason for an uneaual fight, as eddard stark learns in king's landing where his investi- gation into the death of jon arryn takes an unexpected-an deadly-turn

in the aftermath of jaime lannister's brutal attack upon eddard stark and his men kina robert meets with the wounded eddard-and presents him with a choice of evils either eddard accepts the heavy mantle ofthe king's hand once more appoint jaime to the position adding to the troubles of house stark, tyrion o' robert will lannister wins his freedom from catelyn stark; now the imp will return to his father, intent on revenge for his treatment at the hands of cat and here mad sister. meanwhile far to the north the bastard jon snow becomes a sworn brother of the night's watch and must but his loyalty to the starks aside

lords owing allegiance to riverrun come to king's landing to complain of ser gregor clegane, it falls to eddard stark, in the absence of the king, to bass judgment he declares the brutish clegane, a bannerman of house lannister, guilty of ittreason and dispatches met to bring him to jus tice. knowing that this will increase the enmity fthe powerful ullannisters, when three eddard decides that he must send his daughters sansa and arya, home to winterfell lannister, tyrion-the imd- o-gains sav- age new allies in his quest for meanwhile, vengeance against lady stark, and eddard, enlightened by the unwitting arva, moves against cerse <illannister yet acts with a mercy he may come to regret. another

proclaimed "the stallion who mounts the world, i"d than ever to retroice in hero marriage to khai.drogo. but when her brother, the mad viserys, demands his promised daenarys has with hero unborn son crown dany's future takes an unex- pected turn meanwhile, in king's landing robert baratheon is mortally wounded while hunting robert decrees that eddard stark shall be more cause lord regent until prince jottrey comes of boy is no son of the dying king' 's yet where in this serpent's nest of intrigue can herestorses turn for help to secure the age, but eddard knows the throne for the rightful heir? andi the frozen north, jon snow, newly pro-essed- moted to the black watch suffers a shock to his oride-and takes the next fateful step toward his destiny

news feddard stark's arrest for trea son has spread to castle black, where jon snow, now a member of the night's watch, finds that the onus of bastardy is nothing compared to being the son of an accused traitor but that is the least of his problems for the frozen corpses of two rangers brought back for examination prove lively enough to commit murder meanwhile, in winterfell, robb stark calls his bannermen and marches south osha argues the north, against the mysterious others but with eddard and sansa though the wildling woman that the held hostage, robb knows that only victory on the battlefield can save them and so together with his moth- ethnrill lady catelyn robb audacious roll of the dice. real fight iies to prepares an

news feddard stark's arrest for trea- son has spread to castle black, where jon snow now a member of the night's watch finds that the onus of bastardy is nothing compared to being the son of an accused traitor but that is the teast of his problems for the frozen corpses ftwo rangers, brought back for examination prove lively enough to commit murder meanwhile in winterfell robb stark calls his bannermen and marches south osha argues that the real fight iies to the north, against the mysterious others but with eddard and sansa though the wildling woman held victory on the battlefield can save them and so together with his moth- hostage 'eukn>tukne lady catelyn, robb prepares an audacious roll of the dice. robb knows that only

after the death ofviserys, khai drogo seems content to forget his promise to conquer westeros for his wife, daenerys-unti an attempt stirs him to vows of vengeance. vengeance is also in the assassination air at king's landing, where joffrey, newly enthroned, names tywin lannister as the king's hand while sansa stark pleads for the life of herestor father, now named a traitor to the crown.

tyrion, under escort by a savage clan of warriors (and in a precarious posi- trouse of being both their leader and their hostage) reunites with his father. soon after, tywin vows to uphold tyrion' s promises to the clans vided they fight for him against the army of robb stark! pro-

battle is joined at the trident, with tyrion lannister in the vanguard- placed there by a father determined.to rid himself of an embarrassment. but the fortunes of war are not so easily manipulated. as lord twin is about to learn, to his great r......a even greater rage, for in a brilliant tactical move, the host of young robb stark has descended upon the army of jaime lannister outside the besieged gates ofriverrun, and has won a great victory. ...and a prize that might end the war before it has fairly begun.

to the victors belong the spoils! thus has it always been for the savage nomads of the dothraki. but when daenerys finds that the spoils include helpless women, she intercedes-trig- gering angry dissension between khai drogo and his men. drogo's word is law targaryen bride undercut his authori- yet the strange ways of his the now wounded, drogo is weaker still, yet help comes from an unex- pected quarter: among the rescued women, a healer steps forward, eager to repay hero debt.

drogo is dying of his wounds. daenerys will do anything to save him, even if it means embracina for- bidden bloodmagic. but such spells carry a deadly price and, as the preg- nant dany is about to learn, that price can be far harder to bear than any graveside grieving now sansa stark, still betrothed to the mad young king joffrey, yet nonaussiveness longer in love with him. finds herself as much a prisoner as lord eddard was, facing a fate as cruel and capricious -- and as final.

in winterfell, bran, troubled by strange dreams of a three-e-ed crow, learns from maester luwin of the chil- dren of the forest, the original inha' tants of westeros. but his lesson is interrupted --- another bird-a raven, bearing grim news from king's landing: lord eddard is dead meanwhile, it is to that once-proud city, now stained with blood and mad- ness, that tyrion lannister is dis- patched-hy his father, tywin, to rule as regentforth young king jottrey. and across the sea, daenerys learns that her son is dead worse than dead. and heronto husband

avenge his father's murder and clear the name he himself is not permitted to bear, jon snow breaks his solemn vow and deserts from the night's driven by the need to watch-an action for which there is but a single penalty: death. meanwhile, eddard's heir robb stark, seeks to really his bannermen. not all of whom are eager to follow the young, unproven leader, no matter whose son he may be, and daenerys, grief- stricken at the death of heronto husband, drogo, builds a great funeral pyre to consume the hollow remnants of herestor iiif strikes only to find herself present at the fiery birth of a new age

in dragonstone, maester cressen learns that the storm lords wont support stannis baratheon. conflict arises between the two men as stannis favors red priestess melisandre's advice. cressen attempts to poison melisandre, but dies instead.

arya, with the help of yoren, a brother of the night's watch, has escaped from king' s landing, but the road to the wall brings its own dangers. meanwhile, sansa attends a tournament on the sadistic king joffrey' s name-day, and bran, in winterfell suffers from strange dreams of wolves...

in the north jon snow and the men of the night's watch prepare themselves for the coming winter- but when word of the war's recent events arrives, it's troubling news that could shake jon from his oaths meanwhile. in king's landing, tyrion must play a calculated game of intrigue to establish himself as the king' hand: but his sister cer- set queen regent-- is openly dismayed by the news of his ad- -the pointment, and sets herself against hero younger brother now two lions of lannister will clash!

arva continues to travel north to the wall and makes the acquaintance of a most unusual character - jagen h ghat - but when the recruits for the night's watch are stopped by the gold cloaks, a confrontation seems inevitable... meanwhile catelyn stark confronts here son, robb - now kino in the north - and realizes that some- times family and dolitics conflict.

in his new role as the king's hand, tyrion decides a man' fate over wine, and matches wits with varys, the master of whisperers. meanwhile, davos meets with an old friend from his old smuggling davs -the dirate salladhot saan- and must try to dissuade stannis from the cark dath that melisandre, the red woman, is leading him down.

arva continues to travel north with yoren and the mysterious jagen h' ghar, meanwhile, theon returns to his home ! the ancestral seat of the grevioys on the isle of pyke. and with him, he carries a message from robb stark - one that contains a proposal that could change the tide of the war...

while jon snow joins mormont and members of the night's watch on an expedition beyond the wall, daenarys and the dothraki move across the dry lands in search of prosperous land they find a city that may be their salvation, but fear it may be filled with ghosts, something of which jorah knows much.

in king's landing, the small council discusses stannis's latests declarations. tyrion secretly meets with varys. as arya continues to travel north, their night refuge is attacked by lannister soldiers led by ser amory loch.

in the north, bran assumes the role of lord of winterfell. in his sleep, he has a vision of his fall, and sees a silhouette pushing him. at the same time, sansa sneaks out of the red keep and finds dontos hollard, who swears to make her escape.

tyrion schemes in king's landing, giving secret instructions to grand maester pycelle, littlefinger and varys. in the meantime, gendry unmasks arya as a girl. arya, hot pie and gendry get captured by ser clegane, while lommy gets killed.

bran hosts the harvest feast in winterfell, where he welcomes meera and jojen reed. north of the wall, jon and the night's watch arrive to craster's keep. craster tells them that mance rayder is gathering wildlings, so they set out to find and stop him.

tyrion plans unveil, as cersei learns of his idea to marry myrcella to trystane martell. together, they discuss of the peace proposal from robb stark. catelyn arrives to bitterbridge to meet renly baratheon, and witness brienne of tarth victory in a tournament. renly insists that robb must swear allegiance to him.

theon greyjoy reunites with his sister asha while en route to pyke, but is later humiliated by her. balon greyjoy gives a small scale mission to theon. in king's landing, tyrion tells cersei that stannis and renly are fighting, and incapacitate her with poison. he is then free to act as head of the state: he sends demands for peace to robb stark, and throws maester pycelle into prison.

prisoners are tortured by the tickler in front of arya and her friends are tortured by the tickler, before they are all sent to harrenhall. daenerys arrives to qarth, and hears of the death of robert baratheon. bran becomes acquainted with meera and jojen, and jojen reveals he also has visions.

catelyn tries and fails to reconcile stannis and renly, who are about to fight. in harrenhall, arya meets jaqen h'ghar, who tells her he can kill three men for her. arya orders him to kill chiswyck, which he does.

cersei sends lancel to ask tyrion to release maester pycelle, and tyrion uses this opportunity to recruit lancel as a spy. catelyn witness the death of renly, who is killed by a shadow sent by stannis, and helps brienne escape as she was wrongly accused.

joffrey punishes sansa to pay for her brother robb recent victory, but tyrion intervenes. bran also learns of robb's victory, and confirms that jojen reed has magic visions. meanwhile, the night's watch reach the fist of the first men. there, jon discovers dragonglass weapons.

the small council discusses the death of renly, and talk about making allies of house tyrell by marrying joffrey to margaery tyrell. theon wins a battle against benfred tallhart, but has trouble controlling his men. still in harrenhal, arya asks jaqen h'ghar to kill weese.

brienne swears allegiance to caitlyn stark because she saved her. caitlyn arrives to riverrun, only to hear that her brother edmure wishes to engage the passing troops of tywin lannister. tyrion, cersei, sansa and joffrey are attacked by the mob in king's landing because of the rumors about cersei incestuous children, but escape safely.

daenerys receives a dire warning while she basks in the comforts offered in the city of oarth while more than a thousand miles distant, stannis makes his move on ser penrose and storm's end. peace and diplomacy will be cast aside as the red woman melisande displays the full power of those who embrace r'h'or, the lord of light -- much to the horror of those that beat witness to this magic.

an iii wind blows beyond the wall as qhorin haithand arrives at the ranger encampment to recruit readers, while far to the warmth of the south, tyrion conspires in the shadows to ensure the safety of prince tommen. war looms overall, but it is darker powers than swords that trouble the eunuch known as lord varys - the sorcer- 'ets' power of the lord of light that stannis baratheon has seemingly aligned himself with.

as the war rages, lord twin's men probe riverrun's s defenses, pushing edmure tully to the battlefield in a vainglorious quest for honor. meanwhile, in the distant land of qarth, daenerys accepts pvat pree's invitation to visit the house of the undying where the young leader faces visions of both the future and the past. tensions continue to rise as the cast of george r r martin's fantasy epic face the grim realities of their own mortality.

the horrific visions that have been plaguing bran become reality in the most unexpected and shocking of ways as theon greyjoy returns to winterfell-but not as the friend he once was, meanwhile, arya stark whispers the last name owed to the many-faced-god. and jagen hghar responds with swift and violent action at here behest.

amidst the freezing cold beyond the wall jon snow meets the wildling yo'tte and learns the sony of the winter rose. meanwhile, theon greyjoy, fresh from conquering winterfell awak- ens to the disappearance of his hostages bran and rickon.

the threat of war iooms high at king's landing, leaving tyrion little time to dean with the enemies without... not to mention those planning treach- eries within. sansa is questioned by cerse! about hero readiness to become jottrey's wite. meanwhile. far from the struggles in the south, jon snow taces an entirely different army - the wildlings of the north are marching and there is little that can stop them.

the tensions between cerse! and tyrion reach a breaking point as the queen, convinced that tyrion will betray heronto seizes the woman she believes tyrion loves. meanwhile, catelyn stark reels at the news that here youngest sons have been betrayed and murdered by a man they had trusted

theon is haunted by the crimes he has committed. in winterfell, the true. horrifying nature of which have vett be 'fully revealed meanwhile, across the sea daenerys' iiit is at risk as she comes tace to face with a sorrowful man can she survive unscathed out will heron future be reshaped by an encounter with two men who watch hero trom the shadows?

while the battle for the crown reaches a fever pitch sansa plays hostess for the lords and ladies of kings landing within the queens ballroom meanwhile, the forces of stannis raily after the devastating burning of the bywater, and only tyrion and a small assortment of soldiers are willing to stand against them. the sun will soon rise, and only then will it be known who will live and who will die

the long-awaited battle for king's landing begins, as stannis baratheon sets the weight of his navy against the walls of the capi- transceives city and the strategies of tyrion lannister. inside the red keep, queen cerse! holds court with the nobles seeking refuge against the oncoming horde.

with their options running out at harrenhal, arya, gendry, and hot pie make a desperate move. while to the south at kings landing, the fires of war begin to wane and sansa feels a stirring of hope for here future. but even though jottrey has released hero from here vow to wed, the is still desperately out of reach. young maiden's freedom

barely alive, tyrion struggles between consciousness and a drugged nightmare state, unaware that as here iau in his sickbed the power that here has grown used to commanding is slipping slowly away, meanwhile far to the north theon faces the inevitable price for his violent betrayal of robb stark though not quite in the way here might expect.

the battle for king's landing is over, yet far to the north a new danger marches southward and only jon snow stands left to defy them. meanwhile, bran and rickon's 's true fates within the tombs of winterfell are revealed there is little left of hope now for the scattered children of ned stark.. for the balance of power is in the hands of their enemies and winter is truly coming
