Three rangers of the Night's Watch are tracking a group of wildling raiders beyond the Wall, and encounter the Others, who had not been seen for eight thousand years.

Lord Eddard Stark dispenses justice to a Night's Watch deserter. When they are on their way back to Winterfell, and Jon Snow and Robb Stark find six orphaned direwolf pups.

Lady Catelyn Tully seeks out her husband, Lord Eddard Stark, in the godswood of Winterfell to inform him of the news that his foster father, Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of the King, is dead, and that King Robert I Baratheon, his family, and half his court are on their way to Winterfell.

The exiled Princess Daenerys Targaryen prepares to be presented to the Dothraki khal, Drogo, as her brother, King Viserys Targaryen, hopes to gain a Dothraki army by making such a marriage alliance.

King Robert I Baratheon arrives with his party at Winterfell, where he offers Lord Eddard Stark the position of Hand of the King and proposes a betrothal between Eddard's daughter, Sansa and his own son, Prince Joffrey.

Jon Snow attends the feast Winterfell is holding for the royal guests and speaks with both Benjen Stark and Tyrion Lannister.

A secret letter from her sister leads Catelyn to convince Ned to go to King's Landing and become the Hand of the King.

Arya runs out on her needlework session to watch the boys practice with swords in the yard.

Bran is climbing the towers of Winterfell when he discovers Cersei and Jaime Lannister making love and talking about the danger his father poses. Eventually, he is discovered and Jaime shoves him out the window.

Tyrion meets up with his nephew Joffrey and insists he pay his sympathies to the Starks, before joining his brother and sister for breakfast with news that Bran Stark will probably survive.

Jon says his last goodbyes, first to the comatose Bran, then to Robb, and finally to Arya, to whom he gives a Braavosi-type sword.

Daenerys Targaryen is married to Khal Drogo in a ceremony that lasts all day with a dozen deaths. When night falls, Drogo takes Daenerys for a long ride before making love.

Ned and King Robert discuss the threat posed by Daenerys Targaryen's marriage and the events surrounding the Sack of King's Landing.

As they travel north Tyrion and Jon Snow argue about the realities of life on the Wall.

Catelyn's breakdown over Bran's fall ends when an attempt is made on Bran's life. Catelyn delays the assassin long enough for Bran's direwolf to arrive and kill the assassin. Catelyn is now convinced Bran did not fall, but was pushed.

After exploring the camp, Sansa Stark goes riding with her betrothed, Prince Joffrey. Near the ruby ford, they come upon Arya Stark and a butcher's boy play-fighting. Joffrey begins to torment the boy until Arya attacks him.

Arya and Joffrey tell King Robert very different stories concerning their fight near the Trident. When Sansa claims she does not remember, Queen Cersei demands the death of a direwolf. With Nymeria gone, Lady is sentenced to death instead.

While in his coma, Bran dreams of falling and of a crow teaching him to fly. Then he wakes to find himself crippled and decides to name his direwolf Summer.

Catelyn and Ser Rodrik arrive in King's Landing by ship. At a secret meeting with Petyr Baelish and Varys, Catelyn is told the assassin's knife belonged to Tyrion Lannister.

After training, Jon Snow is attacked by several other recruits but saved by Donal Noye, who shows Jon the error of his ways. Then Jon meets up with Tyrion and later learns from the Lord Commander that Bran has awoken.

Immediately upon his arrival in King's Landing, Ned is summoned to a meeting of the small council to plan a tournament. Afterward, Littlefinger intercepts him and leads him to where Catelyn is hiding, where they plan their strategy for justice.

Tyrion dines with high officers of the Night's Watch and promises Lord Commander Mormont that he will speak to the king of their need. Afterwards, while paying a final visit to the Wall, Tyrion meets Jon Snow, who asks Tyrion to do what he can to help his brother Bran.

Unhappy at King's Landing, Arya abandons her dinner. Her father comes to her room to talk to her and sees she has her sword out. After a long talk, he decides not to take the sword away. Several days later, Arya meets her new dancing master.

Daenerys learns to embrace her life in Drogo's khalasar, and stands up to Viserys for the first time. Afterward, when Drogo arrives to have sex with her, she rides him instead of being taken from behind and becomes pregnant.

Bran is roused from his depression when he is called to the Great Hall of Winterfell to receive Tyrion Lannister. Despite Robb’s rudeness, Tyrion provides plans for a saddle that will allow Bran to ride a horse once more.

Ned speaks with Grand Maester Pycelle about Lord Jon Arryn's final days. On his way back, he finds Arya training to be a water dancer on the steps of the Tower of the Hand. Later, he is visited by Littlefinger who has found four of Lord Arryn's household remaining in King's Landing.

Samwell Tarly appears in the yard while Jon is training the other recruits. When Ser Alliser Thorne orders Sam beaten after he yields, Jon and his friends aid the new recruit. Later Jon talks with Sam and, afterwards, convinces the other recruits to go easy on Sam, despite Thorne's commands.

Ned and the small council deal with policing problems caused by the upcoming tourney. After the meeting, Jory Cassel reports to Ned on interviews with Jon Arryn's remaining household. The report includes mention of visits by Lord Arryn and Stannis Baratheon to a brothel and an armorer. Ned orders Jory to identify the brothel and goes to visit the armorer himself. There he discovers an apprentice named Gendry who looks astonishingly like King Robert.

Catelyn and Ser Rodrik take shelter from the rain at the inn at the crossroads. Soon after, Tyrion Lannister and his party arrive. Tyrion recognizes Catelyn, who had hoped to remain anonymous, and Catelyn takes this opportunity to convince the men in the room to take Tyrion captive so he can face the king’s justice in Winterfell.

Sansa is enthralled by the tourney, especially the knights. Ser Gregor Clegane kills a new-made knight named Ser Hugh in a joust, and after a victory Ser Loras Tyrell gives her a rose. During the feast that follows, Prince Joffrey is very courteous, but afterward he orders the Hound to escort Sansa back to her chambers. When the Hound notices Sansa is avoiding looking at his burned face, he forces her to look and tells her how he acquired it.

After viewing the body of Ser Hugh, Ned and Ser Barristan Selmy struggle to convince King Robert not to compete in the melee. The Hound wins the tourney when he saves the life of the Knight of Flowers. Later, Varys visits Ned to reveal that Robert was meant to die in the melee.

Tyrion Lannister finds he is being taken to the Eyrie instead of Winterfell, which will fool any attempt to rescue him. His attempts to convince Lady Catelyn of his innocence are interrupted when the Vale mountain clans attack. During the fight, Tyrion saves Catelyn and afterwards he explains that Littlefinger’s accusation has a hole: Tyrion would never bet against his family.

Arya is chasing a cat when Myrcella and Tommen discover her. She escapes unidentified, but finds herself in the dungeons. There she overhears two men talking about killing her father. After eventually finding her way out she tries to tell her father what she heard but he does not believe her.

Ned and King Robert argue over a plot to kill Daenerys Targaryen. When the small council also sides against him, Ned resigns in protest. As Ned prepares to return to Winterfell, Littlefinger arrives with news that he has identified the brothel that Jon Arryn and Stannis Baratheon visited.

Catelyn and her party finally reach the Bloody Gate and safety. At her sister’s request, Catelyn makes the dangerous night ascent to the Eyrie to meet Lysa and her sickly son, Robert.

Littlefinger leads Ned to the brothel that Jon Arryn visited. There he talks to a young whore with a daughter that has the look of King Robert. As they are returning to the Red Keep, Ned’s party is ambushed by Jaime Lannister and about 20 of his men. In retribution for the abduction of his brother, Jaime has Ned’s escort killed. Ned’s leg is broken during the fight, and he loses consciousness.

The khalasar enters Vaes Dothrak. As they ride up the godsway, Daenerys discusses the pros and cons of Dothraki combat skills with Ser Jorah Mormont. Once they have settled in, Daenerys invites Viserys to sup with her and makes a peace offering of new clothes. He becomes angry and grabs her. She hits him hard with a belt and tells him to leave.

During his first ride outside Winterfell since his fall, Bran learns of Jaime Lannister’s attack on his father. Robb goes ahead to find the direwolves and Bran is attacked by six outlaws. Robb returns with the direwolves and defeats all but one. The last man holds a dagger to Bran’s throat until Theon kills him with an arrow from behind. Osha, the only survivor, is taken captive.

Tyrion is held captive in one of the Eyrie's sky cells. Eventually he bribes the gaoler to take a message that he is ready to confess. When brought into the High Hall, Tyrion manages to convince Lady Lysa Arryn to give him a trial by combat and the sellsword Bronn declares he will be Tyrion’s champion.

Ned dreams of the showdown at the Tower of Joy. When he wakes he finds King Robert angry about the abduction of Tyrion Lannister, demanding that Ned make peace with the Lannisters. Robert reinstates Ned as Hand of the King and declares that Ned must sit the Iron Throne because he is going hunting.

Catelyn gets news from Riverrun that House Lannister is gathering an army at Casterly Rock. As Catelyn and Ser Rodrik arrive for Tyrion's trial by combat they meet Ser Brynden, who has resigned his post and plans to join the defense of Riverrun. Bronn kills Ser Vardis Egen in the duel, and Lysa sets Bronn and Tyrion free outside the Bloody Gate to take their chances with the Vale mountain clans.

Ser Alliser announces that he is passing eight recruits, including Jon. There is a celebration, but Jon realizes that Sam will not survive without the others to protect him. Jon asks Maester Aemon to allow Sam to become his steward since he can read, write, and do sums.

Tyrion and Bronn make camp on the high road. Tyrion wants to make a fire, but Bronn protests that it will bring the Vale mountain clans down on them. Tyrion sees no point in trying to avoid the clans and Bronn gives in. As Tyrion plans, the Stone Crows arrive and Tyrion negotiates an agreement.

As Hand of the King, Ned hears a petition from some House Tully bannermen concerning raiding on their holdfasts by Gregor Clegane. He strips Clegane of all lands, titles, and his life and sends a force under Lord Beric Dondarrion to dispense the king's justice.

Sansa wonders with Jeyne Poole why her father did not send the gallant Ser Loras to kill the monster Ser Gregor. The next day her father reveals that he is sending her and Arya back to Winterfell. Sansa insists that she cannot leave because she is to marry Prince Joffrey, who is nothing like his father and will give her children with golden hair. This is an epiphany to her father.

Ned now knows the truth Jon Arryn died for. He also learns from Pycelle and Petyr Baelish that Lord Tywin Lannister is preparing for a war. Later, Ned meets with Cersei and tells her that he will tell Robert the truth when he returns, offering her the chance to flee and save her children. Cersei warns that Ned has made a mistake.

Daenerys eats a stallion heart as part of a Dothraki pregnancy ritual. Afterwards she baths in the Womb of the World and goes to the reception feast. Viserys soon arrives, drunk and screaming. He draws his blade and demands what he is owed. Khal Drogo gives him a crown of molten gold.

Ned learns that King Robert has been mortally wounded by a boar. In his will, Robert declares Ned the Regent. Afterward, Renly Baratheon urges Ned to seize the royal children to secure his power, but Ned refuses. Ned writes a letter offering the throne to Stannis Baratheon as the rightful heir. Reconsidering his need for men, Ned declares his intentions to Littlefinger and asks him to arrange the support of the City Watch.

Jon is disgusted to learn that he will be a steward, not a ranger. Sam convinces Jon that being the Lord Commander’s steward is actually an honor meant to groom him for command. Jon and Sam are taken to a godswood beyond the Wall to say their vows before the old gods. After they have taken their vows, Ghost returns with a human hand in his jaws.

After King Robert’s death, Ned convenes the small council to confirm him as Protector of the Realm. However, the council is interrupted by a summons to the throne room where King Joffrey demands oaths fealty. Queen Cersei destroys Robert’s will and Ned declares Joffrey has no right to the Iron Throne. When Ned calls for the City Watch to seize Cersei and her children, the gold cloaks instead kill Ned’s men, and Littlefinger reveals his betrayal.

Arya’s training with Syrio Forel is interrupted by Ser Meryn Trant and a party of Lannister guardsmen. When Meryn demands Arya come with him, Syrio senses something odd and fights the guards, giving Arya time to escape. At the stables Arya finds her sword Needle and kills a stable boy who attempts to capture her before escaping via the dungeons of the Red Keep.

On the third day after sneaking out to tell Queen Cersei of her father’s plans to send her away, Sansa is summoned from her house arrest. She is brought before the queen and the small council. There she is informed that her father is a traitor and is persuaded to write letters to her relatives explaining what has happened.

The bodies of two men that accompanied Benjen Stark are found. Ser Jaremy Rykker blames wildlings, but Sam points out odd characteristics about the bodies. Back at Castle Black, Jon learns that King Robert is dead and that his father is charged with treason. At dinner that night, Ser Alliser Thorne mocks Jon and his father, and Jon attacks him. That night Jon finds the wight of one of the dead men in the Lord Commander’s room. Jon kills the monster, saving the Lord Commander.

Bran watches the Karstarks arrive, then goes to the godswood to pray. He is interrupted by Osha, who tells him about the old gods and the Others. She insists that Robb should be marching north not south. Bran passes on her advice to Maester Luwin. Then Robb marches his army south.

Daenerys is unable to convince Khal Drogo to assault the Seven Kingdoms to regain her throne. While Drogo is hunting, Daenerys goes to the market where a wine merchant offers her a cask of wine. When Ser Jorah insists that the merchant drink first, the merchant refuses and attempts to flee. When Drogo learns of the attempt to poison Daenerys, he makes the decision to attack the Seven Kingdoms.

Catelyn and Ser Brynden Tully meet Robb’s army at Moat Cailin, accompanied by the host from House Manderly. In private, Catelyn helps Robb refine his war plans and explains to him that they have no option but to win or die. Robb decides to go south in support of Riverrun with a feint down the kingsroad to keep Lord Tywin Lannister’s force occupied.

Tyrion meets his father’s army at the inn at the crossroads, escorted by 300 Vale mountain clansmen. Tyrion and Lord Tywin are discussing their war plans when Tyrion’s clansmen burst in, but Tywin handles them coolly. When news arrives that Robb Stark’s host is advancing, Tywin offers rich rewards to the clansmen if they fight for him.

Sansa attends Joffrey’s first court session as king. After an official call for all the noble houses to pledge their fealty, the small council announces a number of new appointments. When he is dismissed from the Kingsguard, Ser Barristan Selmy storms out. In his place, the Hound is appointed to the Kingsguard. Finally, Sansa comes forward to ask for leniency for her father, and it is agree that mercy will be granted if he confesses and names Joffrey the true king.

Ned is visited in the black cells by Varys, who brings him news. He urges Ned to admit to treason, command Robb to lay down his sword, and denounce Stannis and Renly. When Eddard states that his life is not worth forsaking his honor, Varys tells him that Cersei has Sansa, whose life is also at stake.

Robb's host arrives at the Twins, where Catelyn negotiates their crossing of the Green Fork with Lord Walder Frey.

Jon is presented with the Valyrian steel sword Longclaw by Lord Commander Mormont. Jon attempts to refuse, but the commander insists. Later, Jon gets a message that Maester Aemon wants to see him. The maester knows that Jon is divided between his duty and his family loyalties and explains that he sympathizes. When Jon rejects his empathy, the old man reveals that he is Aemon Targaryen, son of King Maekar I.

Khal Drogo has defeated another khalasar, capturing a town and many captives. Daenerys intervenes when she sees Dothraki warriors raping the women. When she finds Drogo, Daenerys is concerned about her husband’s wounds and calls for the healers. Mirri Maz Duur, one of the women she has rescued, speaks up that she is a healer, and Drogo agrees to let her tend to his wounds in her temple.

Tyrion and his clansmen are assigned to the vanguard under the command of Ser Gregor Clegane. Returning to his tent, Tyrion is greeted by a whore named Shae, whom Bronn has found for him. Before dawn, Tyrion is roused by the call to arms. In the ensuing battle on the Green Fork, Tyrion and his clansmen do well and the enemy is routed. Afterward Lord Tywin Lannister learns that Robb Stark has tricked him.

Robb Stark has managed to lead his host to Riverrun without detection. Now Catelyn waits with her guards as her son leads his host to ambush Ser Jaime Lannister. Once the battle is over, Robb returns with Jaime as a captive. However, the death of several of Robb's party mars the sweetness of the victory.

Khal Drogo falls off his horse. Daenerys orders the khalasar to halt and calls for Mirri Maz Duur. The godswife declares that only blood magic can save Drogo. As the rite is being performed, Drogo's bloodriders attempt to intervene. A fight ensues in which Ser Jorah Mormont is injured and all of Drogo’s bloodriders are killed. Daenerys starts to hemorrhage and Ser Jorah carries her into Drogo's tent.

Arya is surviving on the streets of King's Landing by hunting pigeons. When she hears the summoning bells, she joins the crowd to watch her father confess his treason. Once the confession is done, King Joffrey demands his head. Arya attempts to get to him, but Yoren of the Night's Watch stops her. Afterward, he declares that she is coming with him.

Bran and Rickon have the same dream about seeing their father in the crypt of Winterfell. Maester Luwin takes Bran down to the crypts to show him his father is not there. They find Rickon already there. They go back to the maester’s turret where Luwin tells them about the coming of the First Men, the treaty with the children of the forest and the coming of the Andals. A raven arrives with news of Lord Eddard’s death.

Sansa is in a depression after the execution of her father. Joffrey arrives to browbeat her into attending him in court. After court, Joffrey takes her to the ramparts to see the heads of her father and household. For a fleeting moment, Sansa has the opportunity to push Joffrey off the wall, but it disappears too soon.

Daenerys has terrible nightmares during her long recovery. She wakes to learn that her child was born dead, a twisted monstrosity. When she visits with Drogo he is comatose, but Mirri Maz Duur insist that he is alive. Daenerys is horrified by the cost of the bloodmagic. That night, she attempts to revive Drogo, but by morning knows he is gone forever and smothers him with a pillow.

News of Robb Stark’s victory at Riverrun prompts vigorous debate among the Lannister officers. After dismissing the officers, Lord Tywin details their precarious position to Tyrion and dispatches him to King's Landing to serve as acting Hand of the King and keep Joffrey from ruining them all. In spite of his father’s direct command, Tyrion intends to bring Shae with him.

Jon deserts in the middle of the night, determined to join his brother Robb in the quest for vengeance. South of Mole's Town, his friends catch up and bring him back. In the morning, Lord Commander Mormont reveals he knows about the night’s events and convinces Jon to stay and join him on a great ranging beyond the Wall.

Catelyn returns to Riverrun for the first time in many years. After meeting with her ailing father, she seeks out Robb in the godswood. After praying with his bannermen, Robb calls a council to determine their next move. The council argues for hours about which way to march and which king to support until Greatjon Umber gives a rousing speech and the bannermen proclaim Robb the King in the North.

Daenerys builds a funeral pyre for Drogo and places her dragon eggs among his treasures. When she attempts to take control of the few remaining Dothraki as a khal would, she is refused. As night falls, Daenerys lights the pyre and is drawn by instinct deep into the inferno. When the pyre dies, the others find her unburnt and nursing the first three baby dragons in hundreds of years.

Maester Cressen broods on the omens all around him on Dragonstone. When news arrives that the storm lords will not support Stannis Baratheon’s quest for the Iron Throne, Cressen comes into conflict with Queen Selyse and the red priestess Melisandre over what course to take. In a desperate attempt to kill Melisandre, Cressen shares poison wine with her, but dies while she remains unaffected.

Arya Stark is travelling north with Yoren of the Night's Watch, disguised as a boy. When the orphan boy known as Hot Pie tries to steal her sword “Needle,” Arya beats him bloody. Yoren takes her aside for punishment and reveals that her father was supposed to be allowed to take the black, rather than be executed.

Sansa Stark attends the tourney on King Joffrey's name day. After several poor contests, Joffrey becomes enraged when Ser Dontos Hollard arrives half naked and too drunk to compete. Sansa manages to convince Joffrey to make Dontos his new fool instead of executing him. Afterward, while Prince Tommen is riding against a quintain, Tyrion Lannister arrives to assume his position as acting Hand of the King.

Tyrion Lannister meets with the small council and assumes his position as acting Hand of the King. After dismissing the council, he and Cersei discuss all that has happened in King’s Landing, and Cersei grudgingly accepts him as Hand. Later, Tyrion travels to the Broken Anvil, where he has finds Varys has already discovered his mistress Shae.

Prince Bran Stark contemplates the red comet and listens to the direwolves howling in Winterfell, wondering about the reasons behind it all. He resents his broken body and the arrival of Big Walder and Little Walder Frey, whom he blames for Summer and Shaggydog being locked up. When he tells Maester Luwin about his wolf dreams, Luwin gives him a sleeping draught to stop the dreams, but that night he dreams he is Summer trapped in the godswood.

Arya and the others encounter more refugees every day as they journey north. One evening they halt at an inn, where they hear news of the war in the riverlands. Outside the inn, Arya talks with the prisoner Jaqen H'ghar. Soon after, six gold cloaks arrive with an arrest warrant for the Bull, but Yoren refuses and after a tense standoff the gold cloaks retreat.

Jon Snow finds Samwell Tarly in the dark library cellar of Castle Black, where Sam has found a number of maps for the great ranging. Out in the courtyard they watch the new recruits practicing and Jon talks with Donal Noye. After they present their maps, Lord Commander Jeor Mormont discusses Maester Aemon’s past with Jon.

Catelyn Stark watches as her son King Robb Stark presents his peace terms to his envoy Ser Cleos Frey. Afterward, Catelyn argues with Robb over his refusal to exchange Jaime Lannister and his plan to send Theon Greyjoy back to the Iron Islands. Later, Catelyn discusses the war with Brynden Tully and they plan an alliance with King Renly Baratheon.

Tyrion dines with Lord Janos Slynt. They discuss the murder of King Robert's bastard daughter, Eddard Stark’s execution, and candidates for Commander of the City Watch. Tyrion then has Slynt taken into custody to join the Night's Watch. Afterward, he discusses the same topics with Varys.

Arya and the others have abandoned the kingsroad to avoid the gold cloaks. As they travel west they come upon a burned village. When Arya goes to make water in the forest, she runs into a wolf pack, which scares her. She reports this to Yoren, who laments they should have taken a ship instead.

Davos Seaworth watches the burning of the Seven. Entering the fire, Stannis Baratheon draws out the sword Lightbringer and Melisandre proclaims him Azor Ahai reborn. Later, Davos hears new of the war from the pirate Salladhor Saan, who insists Stannis' new sword is not the true Lightbringer. That night, Davos and Stannis discuss his plan to claim the Iron Throne. When Davos asks why he supports Melisandre's foreign god, Stannis explains that he means to discover Melisandre's true power.

After an absence of ten years, Theon Greyjoy arrives back home on the island Pyke aboard the Myraham. He docks at Lordsport and is disappointed to discover that his father, Lord Balon Greyjoy, has send only Theon's uncle Aeron, a priest of the Drowned God, to escort him to Balon's castle. At Pyke, Theon is greeted coldly by his father, after which he presents Balon with Robb Stark’s letter. Balon rejects the proposed alliance with Robb, instead insisting that he will pay the iron price and carve out a kingdom of his own.

Daenerys Targaryen decides to follow the red comet deep into the red waste to protect her newborn dragons. Many of her khalasar die before they find shelter in a ruined city. There, Ser Jorah Mormont tells her about his second wife, Lynesse Hightower. While her people rest, Daenerys sends her three bloodriders to scout, and Jhogo returns with three strangers from the great city of Qarth.

Jon Snow helps investigate Whitetree, the fourth abandoned wildling village they have encountered. Lord Commander Jeor Mormont dispatches Jon with a report for Samwell Tarly to send back to Castle Black. After a short talk with Sam, Jon returns to Mormont to discuss how his uncle might have reacted to the abandoned villages.

Arya and the others decide to spend the night in the holdfast of an abandoned town on the southern shores of the Gods Eye. That night, Lannister raiders led by Ser Amory Lorch arrive to demand they open the gate. When Yoren refuses, a fight breaks out. As the battle turns against them, Yoren orders Arya to get the survivors out through an escape tunnel in the burning barn. Before escaping Arya throws an axe to the three criminals trapped in their wagon.

The small council discusses Stannis's declaration that Cersei's children are bastards born of incest. Cersei wants the letters suppressed, but Tyrion and Littlefinger convince her they should treat the letters with contempt whilst spreading their own rumor that Stannis' daughter is illegitimate. Tyrion leaves the council to meet with city's smiths to commission an immense chain, then meets with Varys via a secret passage in a brothel.

Bran receives the lords of the North at Winterfell for the harvest feast. Each has business to discuss, and many are interested in wedding Lady Donella Hornwood, whose husband and only son have died in the south. Lady Hornwood herself is concerned that Ramsay Snow, the bastard of the Dreadfort, means to seize her lands. The night Cley Cerwyn arrives with news that Stannis has declared Joffrey a bastard, Bran dreams of a golden man throwing him from a tower.

Tyrion meets with Grand Maester Pycelle, Littlefinger, and Varys in turn, and gives each a secret plan. To Pycelle, he gives a secret letter for Prince Doran Martell; to Littlefinger, a plan to give Lysa Arryn her husband's killer and wed Princess Myrcella to Robert Arryn; and to Varys, a plan to give Prince Doran Martell his sister's killer and Prince Tommen as a ward.

In response to a secret note, Sansa takes advantage of a ruckus outside the Red Keep to sneak to the godswood, where she is disappointed to find Dontos Hollard instead of the dashing knight she prayed for. Nevertheless, Dontos says he has a plan to help her escape and take her home. On her way back, Sansa runs into a drunken Sandor Clegane, who escorts her back to her chambers.

On their way to scout a village, Gendry unmasks Arya as a girl, forcing her to reveal her true identity. The village turns out to be occupied by Ser Gregor Clegane and his men, and Gendry is captured. During a rescue attempt, Hot Pie panics, leading to Arya's capture as well. Later, a spearman kills Lommy rather than carry him.

Tyrion visits the Guildhall of the Alchemists to discuss the production of wildfire then meets with Ser Cleos Frey about Robb Stark's peace terms. On the way back to the Red Keep, Tyrion passes a prophet preaching of corruption and incest. When he finds Cersei waiting in his solar, the pair argue about strategy and sending Myrcella to Dorne, which gives Tyrion the identity of an informer.

Acting as Lord of Winterfell, Bran hosts the harvest feast and greets Meera and Jojen Reed, who arrive to represent their father Howland Reed.That night, Bran dreams of the Reeds visiting the direwolves in the godswood.

As envoy to King Renly Baratheon, Catelyn arrives at Bitterbridge to find a great melee in progress. Afterward, the champion Brienne of Tarth is granted her request to become one of Renly's Rainbow Guard. That night Catelyn attends a feast and meets privately with Renly, who insists Robb must bend the knee to him. Then, a messenger arrives with news that King Stannis Baratheon has besieged Storm's End.

The Night's Watch finally finds people at Craster's Keep. Craster has been an ally to the Watch, but he has an unsavory reputation. Jon Snow discovers that Craster marries his daughters and gives his young sons to the Cold Gods. Jon gets the opportunity to talk to one of Craster’s wives, Gilly, about this, and learns that the Cold Gods have bright blue eyes like the wights that attacked Jeor Mormont. The next day, Jon rides with the Lord Commander, telling him about Craster’s sons and daughters, and learns that the commander knew. Then the commander tells him that Craster informed them that Mance Rayder is gathering his people at Frostfangs.

Theon Greyjoy meets an ironborn woman calling herself Esgred while admiring his new longship. Immediately taken by her, Theon responds to her flirtations, eventually offering her a ride to his father's castle. They continue to flirt on route to Pyke, but upon their arrival, Theon discovers that Esgred is actually his older sister, Asha. At the feast held by Lord Balon Greyjoy that evening, Asha sits in the seat to Balon's right, a place of high honor. Theon and Asha later join their father and two uncles, Victarion and Aeron, in Balon's solar, where Balon reveals his plans. Theon is furious to discover that he has been given the least important mission.

Tyrion delivers the news to Cersei that Stannis Baratheon and Renly Baratheon are confronting each other, using the opportunity to poison Cersei so she cannot interfere with his actions. The next day in court he sends Cleos Frey back to Robb Stark with the Lannister demands for peace. Finally he hears from Alliser Thorne about the dead coming alive, and dismisses the threat. Later, he takes Grand Maester Pycelle into custody, getting him to confess his role in the death of Jon Arryn, among other crimes.

Eight days pass before they leave the village. Each day, one of them is tortured by the Tickler for information about where valuables and food is hidden (with little result) and the whereabouts of Lord Beric Dondarrion (for no information). Finally they are marched to Harrenhal to serve under Tywin Lannister. Arya, after complaining about being assigned to the kitchen, is assigned to the understeward in the Wailing Tower, Weese.

There is a great celebration in Qarth for the arrival of Daenerys’ khalasar. Xaro Xhoan Daxos provides her an entire wing of his palace. After a bath, Ser Jorah Mormont arrives with a ship captain with news that King Robert Baratheon is dead and there is civil war in the Seven Kingdoms.

Bran is with Meera and Jojen in the godswood of Winterfell. Meera tells Bran that Jojen has the greensight and has dreams that sometimes come true. Jojen reveals that he has dreamed of the Winged Wolf chained to earth and a three-eyed crow has been unable to free him from the chains. Finally, Bran tells them something of his dreams, and Jojen keeps pressing. Summer gets aggressive and attacks as Bran gets angry, but the Reeds manage to climb a tree to avoid the wolf. Afterwards Bran asks Maester Luwin about Jojen’s greensight, and is told no man has the greensight.

It is late at night when Tyrion is disturbed by the arrival of Lancel with demands from Cersei that Pycelle be released and Ser Jacelyn Bywater be arrested for defying a command in the king's name. Lancel is arrogant until Tyrion reveals he knows his part in King Robert's death and that Lancel has been having sex with the queen. Tyrion threatens to tell Joffrey, and this convinces Lancel to agree to be Tyrion's spy. Afterwards, Tyrion travels a circuitous route to be with Shae.

Arya is working for the understeward of the Wailing Tower doing various chores. When the Ser Amory Lorch arrives, Jaqen H'ghar, Rorge and Biter are with him. Arya thinks that Jaqen has not seen her, but he interrupts her sleep that night to tell her he will kill three men for her for saving him and his two companions. She avoids Jaqen for a while, but after hearing a story by Chiswyck, she whispers Chiswyck’s name in Jaqen's ear. Several days later he falls to his death.

Catelyn meets with Stannis Baratheon and Renly Baratheon in hopes of bringing the brothers to reason. She fails and learns that Stannis has sent a letter claiming that neither Joffrey nor Tommen are Robert Baratheon's sons. Even though there is no proof, she remembers that Lysa claimed that Cersei killed her husband. Catelyn asks Renly’s leave but is not given it—he wants her to see him victorious in the morning.

Sansa is called before Joffrey to pay for her brother Robb Stark’s latest victory. Sansa is being beaten by Boros Blount when Tyrion Lannister arrives. He stops the beating and has her taken to the Tower of the Hand to be cleaned up and treated. The next morning he offers her protection, but she refuses.

Catelyn prays to the seven in a sept in a small village. As she prays, the realization comes to her that both Eddard Stark and Jon Arryn died for their knowledge of Cersei’s incest, and that Bran also knows. She arrives back at Renly Baratheon's pavillion, where Brienne of Tarth prepares him for battle. She asks Renly to call a Great Council with his brother and Robb to let Bran tell what he saw. He refuses to support the concept. Then, a shadow kills Renly. When the guards arrive, it is assumed that Brienne killed him. Catelyn escapes with her, and they join Catelyn’s party to leave.

Lord Commander Mormont's men reach the Fist of the First Men. The Lord Commander plans to reinforce the stone ring built by the First Men during the Dawn Age to wait for men from the Shadow Tower here, and then to wait for Mance Rayder to return from the Frostfangs. Ghost finally joins Jon Snow in the ring, surprising Jon since Ghost has previously refused to come into the ring. Ghost leads him to some buried Dragonglass weapons wrapped in a cloak of the Night's Watch.

Bran learns of his brother's victory, and the death of Ser Stevron Frey, and realizes that Jojen Reed's prophesy has come true. Jojen now tells him of his green dream of the sea flowing over the walls of Winterfell. Bran tries to warn others, but mostly the dream is dismissed. Ser Rodrik Cassel finally returns with a prisoner, Reek, who was involved in the forced marriage and then murder of Lady Hornwood. Jojen reveals to Bran that he had a green dream in which Reek is skinning off Bran's face.

The small council is discussing the news of Renly's mysterious murder. Tyrion points out that they have an opportunity to recruit House Tyrell to Joffrey I since they loved Renly but not Stannis Baratheon. To recruit them, Tyrion recommends that Joffrey marry Margaery Tyrell. Cersei does not like the idea, stating Joffrey will not like it, but eventually agrees. Neither Cersei nor Tyrion want to leave King’s Landing to meet with the Tyrells but Littlefinger volunteers, expecting a reward for his service.

At the Stony Shore, Theon Greyjoy and his men have won an easy victory against a force led by Benfred Tallhart. Feeling dissatisfied, Theon meets with Dagmer on Dagmer's ship and admits to his feelings. He lays out a plan for Dagmer, which he means to proof himself worthy with to his father, Lord Balon Greyjoy.

Tywin Lannister’s host is leaving Harrenhal. Arya has been kept busy delivering messages for Weese, and she wants to find Jaqen H'ghar before he leaves. She finally finds Jaqen and gives him Weese’s name. As she watches Tywin Lannister lead his host out of the castle, she realizes that she has been targeting the wrong people, people who really do not matter. She goes in search of Jaqen, but finds Weese’s dead body first.

Catelyn and her escort are nearing Riverrun and are met by Martyn Rivers and his outriders. She learns that Robb has crushed Ser Stafford Lannister’s levies, and that the Greatjon has seized three of the Lannisters' gold mines. Robb reached Oxcross by following a trail Grey Wind had discovered around the Golden Tooth. However, Martyn tells her that Lord Tywin is marching on Riverrun as they speak. Catelyn makes all haste back to her father Hoster's castle, but first takes Brienne as her sworn sword, to prevent the girl from doing anything foolish. Catelyn is fearful of her brother Edmure's chances in battle against Lord Tywin, and outside Riverrun discovers Lannister men hanging from the walls. Edmure informs her that four men from Ser Cleos's party attempted to free Ser Jaime, and nearly succeeded. They were hanged for their deeds, and the Kingslayer was placed in the deep dungeons and chained to the wall. Her father's steward, Utherydes Wayn, asks Catelyn if there is no hope of aid from the south, hoping that Stannis Baratheon will be forced to make common cause with them, but Catelyn gives no answer, since 'Stannis has made common cause with 'a power greater and darker'.

Daenerys relates to Xaro Xhoan Daxos how the Pureborn have denied her, despite all the customary bribes and traditional proceedings she followed. Daenerys' hope of obtaining ships and men from the Pureborn was in vain, and now she has to move on. The Pureborn are interested only in her dragons, not in her cause. She again beseeches Xaro for ships, but the merchant prince tells her he has no warships. He asks her again to marry him, and she again refuses. She considers going to the Warlocks for aid, and again Xaro warns her not to. As they move through the marketplace, Daenerys witnesses a firemage make a ladder of fire and climb it into the sky, as cutpurses move through the astonished crowd. Xaro declares the feat a fine trick, but Quaithe appears and tells them it was no trick.

Tyrion, the royal family, and their retainers are at the docks to see Princess Myrcella off to Dorne. Tyrion is sending Arys Oakheart with her as her sworn shield. Prince Doran Martell has promised to move his banners into the high passes once Myrcella is safely at Sunspear.

Davos has recently returned to Stannis's fleet after delivering the king’s message throughout the realm. He learns that Stannis has been having terrible nightmares, and that only Lady Melisandre can soothe him to sleep. She has been sharing his pavilion of late, and he wonders how she soothes him to sleep.

Jon hears the call of a warhorn, one blast to signify brothers returning. Qhorin Halfhand has arrived, with 100 men from the Shadow Tower. Qhorin recognizes Jon, and tells him that he knew Lord Eddard and Jon’s grandfather Lord Rickard as well. The men from the Shadow Tower were delayed because they met Alfyn Crowkiller and his men who had been scouting along the Wall. They killed the wildling leader and took some captives, but lost four men in the process. Later, Jon overhears dissent in the ranks as Chett and Lark the Sisterman speak of not going into the Frostfangs, no matter what the Old Bear orders. Jon has given the warhorn he found to Sam, because it is cracked and he could get no sound from it, but Sam likes ancient items.

Tyrion learns from Lancel that the queen intends to hide Tommen away at Rosby under the care of Lord Gyles. He is disturbed that Varys has not learned of this, or decided not to inform him.

Catelyn reflects on how she has always done her duty, remembering that she never comforted Littlefinger after Brandon had injured him, nor did she bid him farewell when her father sent him off. Later, Maester Vyman shows her a letter from Lord Elwood Meadows, the new castellan at Storm's End. The man does not make note of Edric Storm, and she wonders again why Stannis is so interested in the boy, thinking he might mean to use the boy’s appearance as proof of Joffrey’s ill heritage. Catelyn is considering the nature of bastards and their fathers, and recalls Roose Bolton’s recent missive where he calls his bastard, Ramsay Snow, a boy of tainted blood and that he counts himself "well rid of him". Bolton states that he hopes Robb will weigh his capture of Harrenhal against the crimes of his bastard son.

Bran is once again dreaming through the eyes of Summer, who is alerted by a faint clink, and he and his brother can smell something wrong in the air. The direwolf desperately tries to escape from the godswood, but the gate is locked, so tries to climb a tree to reach the wall, following Bran’s thoughts. Summer falls from the tree, and Bran awakes with a sore shoulder to find a strange man in his room, followed by Theon Greyjoy. Theon, calling himself a prince, tells him that the castle is his now, that his ironmen swam the moat and unlocked the postern gate. His father’s former ward informs him that he must make the people of Winterfell aware that Theon is in command, and that no one will be hurt if they concede. Bran watches as all those whom Jojen saw in his dream die, and all of the crannogman’s words have come true. The sea has come to Winterfell, and Mikken drowns on his own blood as he refuses to bend the knee.[1] Most in the castle defy Theon, but Reek and Osha join his service. Bran is disappointed about the latter, but manages to convince the rest that fighting is not the answer.

The Bloody Mummers bring 100 northmen to Harrenhal as prisoners. Arya sees this as an opportunity to free the men, take over the castle, and escape. Gendry refuses to help her, but when she meets Jaqen H'ghar, she is able to persuade him and they free the men together. Arya is forced to take on yet another pseudonym, Nan, and is named Roose Bolton's cupbearer.

Daenerys Targaryen enters the House of the Undying, where she experiences many visions. She reaches the audience chamber of the Undying Ones, who give her cryptic information and then try to consume her. Drogon rescues her and she runs outside, where Pyat Pree tries to attack her, but Drogon comes to her help once again.

Tyrion dispatches his clansmen into the kingswood to raid Stannis's baggage trains, ambush his scouts, and perform night raids. Tyrion feels he can trust only about a quarter of the six thousand men in the City Watch, and feels unprepared for the coming battle. He orders Bronn to start burning down the houses along the wall by the quay, feeling that the enemy could scale the wall easier by climbing on the roofs of the houses. Tyrion is aware that Winterfell has fallen to the ironmen.

Theon Greyjoy discovers that Bran and Rickon Stark have gone missing from Winterfell with their direwolves, the wildling woman Osha, Hodor, and the two Reeds, Meera and Jojen. He organizes a hunt to find them, but grows desperate when no trace of Bran and Rickon can be found. When the sun finally goes down, Reek offers Theon a solution to his problem.

As Qhorin Halfhand’s party moves through the Skirling Pass, they note watchers high up in the pass. Qhorin sends Stonesnake and Jon to dispatch the watchers, and they are warned not to let them sound a horn. Stonesnake teaches Jon how to climb a sheer cliff face, and they eventually reach the top above the wildlings. There are three, and after killing two, the third turns out to be a woman, Ygritte. She yields to them, and Jon takes her captive, despite Stonesnake’s warning that she should be killed. When she learns that Jon is a bastard son of a Stark lord, she tells him the wildling story of Bael the Bard. Supposedly, before he joined the free folk, he was a raider, or, according to Stonesnake, a murderer and robber.

Sansa meets again with Ser Dontos in the godswood, and learns that he hears more things as a fool than he ever did as a knight. Varys the Spider pays in gold for anything overheard, making Dontos believe that Moon Boy has been working for Varys for years. Dontos tells her that Stannis burned the godswood at Storm's End at the behest of the red priestess. When Sansa asks him to make good on his promise, Dontos tells her the time is not right for their escape. Dontos does promise her that when his friend returns to King's Landing, they will have a ship to escape on.

Jon tells Qhorin Halfhand what Ygritte said to him about Mance Rayder accepting him if he ran off. Qhorin confirms this. He knew Mance when he was a black brother, and the ranger tells Jon that Mance loved songs and wildling women, and that he was a wildling captured as a child by the Watch. He was the best ranger they had, but he returned to his roots, some say to gain a crown. Qhorin suspects that Jon let Ygritte go, and Jon confirms that he did, however Qhorin understands that the girl was not a threat, and if he had wanted her dead he would have had Ebben do it, or have done it himself. Qhorin tells Jon that he now knows him better than he did before, and that it is important for a commander to know his men.

Varys shows Tyrion a message from Winterfell that reveals Bran and Rickon were killed at the hands of Theon Greyjoy. Tyrion goes to tell Cersei the news, wanting very much to see her reaction. She tells him she could have frightened Bran into silence, but Jaime reacted without thinking. Tyrion tells her that they must take good care of Sansa, because with two of her sons dead, Lady Catelyn might decide to kill Jaime. Cersei warns him that he trusts Varys too much, telling him that the Spider feeds them all information to make them think they would be helpless without him. She reveals that Varys told her Tyrion meant to take the Hound from Joffrey, and Tyrion explains he needs Sandor Clegane and Ser Balon Swann to lead sorties in the upcoming battle. Tyrion also informs her he means to give Joffrey a small command far out of the main fighting, so that the men can see their King leading them.

Catelyn hears the celebration going on in Riverrun, but she sits alone with Brienne and desolate over the loss of her two young sons. The raven arrived that morning, and Catelyn is beside herself with grief, despondent at the thought nearly all her children are dead or lost to her. She tells Brienne that she sent the Kingslayer a bottle of wine to loosen his tongue. She means to question him, and is perhaps contemplating having the man killed since she has so little to live for anymore.

Theon Greyjoy is awoken by Wex Pyke and Reek and informed of the arrival of his sister, Asha. Theon meets with Asha, who berates him for having killed Bran and Rickon Stark and having mounted their heads upon the gates of Winterfell. Theon refuses to abandon his conquered seat, after which Asha leaves. As a last measure, Theon sends Reek away with a bag of coin in search of men to defend the castle. Afterwards he has yet another nightmare, which makes him realize all around him belongs to the Starks.

Sansa is in the Red Keep's royal sept. The Battle of the Blackwater is underway and the people in the sept are waiting for the outcome.

Davos' ship Black Betha is in the second line on the right as Stannis' great fleet, under the command of Ser Imry Florent, enters Blackwater Bay. He sees that the city defenders have few enough ships, but the shore is well fortified, and dozens of catapults and archers line the walls of the city. Davos is glad to know that Stannis sent Melisandre back to Dragonstone, because the king feared the commonfolk would say it was the sorceress who won the battle.

Tyrion Lannister watches as half of Stannis' fleet is on fire in the Blackwater Rush. Hundreds of people are dying in the water. King Joffrey complains that most of his ships are ablaze, but for Tyrion there is no alternative to sacrificing them. Some of Stannis' ships have escaped, however, releasing men in front of the city wall or waiting on the southern shore of the Blackwater. Tyrion allows Joffrey to launch the Antler Men with the catapults into the fray. He gets word that there is a large force attempting to batter down the King's Gate. When he arrives there, he orders the Hound, who is in command, to go out with his men, but Clegane refuses. Tyrion realizes that the man is afraid of the wildfire and he is forced to rally the troops himself, leading a sortie through the gate to stop Stannis' men.

Cersei continues to receive word on the progress of the battle from one of the Kettleblacks. Slightly drunk, the Queen tells Sansa that there would be no hope of her charming Stannis Baratheon should the city fall, and explains that women have another weapon beside tears. The Queen commands her son be brought back to Maegor's Holdfast as the battle seems to be going in Stannis’s favor. As Sansa begins to cry, Cersei finally reveals that Ser Ilyn is there for them, for she will not permit Stannis to take them alive…

Tyrion, with Ser Balon Swann and Ser Mandon Moore at his side, is cutting through Stannis’s forces. He is confused to see such a large force of men to the west, seemingly fighting Stannis’s men, and can’t figure out where they came from. But he has little time to consider it, as he sees hundreds of Stannis’s troops crossing the Blackwater by using the half-sunk ships as a bridge. Racing onto the boats, Tyrion’s men are overwhelmed, and he goes over the edge of a gunwale, clinging for his life. Ser Mandon Moore appears and tells Tyrion to take his hand, his left hand. As Tyrion reaches for his hand, he instinctively withdraws as Ser Mandon’s sword slices into his face. Tyrion, grievously wounded, watches as Podrick Payne saves his life by shoving Ser Mandon into the river.

Ser Lancel curses Cersei for calling her son back inside the Holdfast, when the king’s presence might have rallied the troops. He claims all is lost, and Cersei leaves the room. Sansa watches as Lancel falls to his knees, severely injured. She attempts to calm Cersei's guests and orders others to help Lancel receive medical care.

Dany considers the defeat of the Undying to be Drogon’s victory. However, Xaro, whose guest she is, warns her that the Warlocks are gathering their power to come for her, and that the other two great merchant consortiums want her either expelled from the city, or killed outright. Dany realizes she must flee, for Xaro’s protection can only go so far. The merchant again asks her to marry him, but this time Dany learns that what Xaro really wants is one of the dragons. Dany tells him that it would cost one-third of all the ships in the world in order for her to give up one of her dragons. Xaro leaves, and Dany questions Ser Jorah about some of the mysteries she saw in the House of the Undying. Jorah says that the three heads of the dragon represent Aegon and his two sisters, but Dany is not convinced. The knight confirms that Rhaegar did play a silver harp, but he says that if the Prince’s son was the promised one in the vision, the infant Aegon was killed during the sack of King's Landing. Jorah has no knowledge of the song of ice and fire.

After aiding in the fall of Harrenhal, Arya is now serving Lord Roose Bolton as his cupbearer, "Nan". She is bothered by the killing and head-staking of many of the servants who worked for Lord Tywin, most of them inherited from Lady Shella Whent who held Harrenhal prior to Lord Tywin.[1] Arya does not wish to reveal herself to the Lord of the Dreadfort, even though she knows Roose to be one of King Robb Stark's bannermen.

Sansa watches the long procession of heroes and captives being presented before the King. Tywin Lannister is now Hand, and many are rewarded for their service to House Lannister during the Battle of the Blackwater, with over 600 new knights made. Ser Loras Tyrell is named a member of Joffrey’s Kingsguard, and Margaery is betrothed to Joffrey. With this, Sansa's betrothal to Joffrey is ended, to her great relief. Mace Tyrell is named to the King’s small council.

As Winterfell is being besieged, Theon Greyjoy declines Maester Luwin's suggestion of yielding. Theon parleys with Ser Rodrik Cassel, using Rodrik's daughter Beth as a hostage. Theon knows that the host will attack regardless of his threat of Beth and considers Luwin's suggestion of requesting taking the black until he is informed that the northmen are fighting among each other. Newly-arrived men from the Dreadfort unexpectedly attack Rodrik's host, and Theon is shocked to discover that they are being led by "Reek", who reveals himself to be Ramsay Snow. Ramsay knocks Theon to the ground and orders Winterfell to be burned.

Tyrion lies abed dreaming of the men who died fighting alongside him in the battle, as well as those he killed. He dreams of Tysha as well, and when he awakens, realizes that he is not at the Tower of the Hand, and the maester hovering over him is one he does not recognize. Unable to speak, the maester gives him milk of the poppy. Later, when the maester returns, Tyrion knocks the poppy from his hands and demands the cast be removed from his face. Maester Ballabar keeps mumbling about the Queen’s orders, but Tyrion will not listen. He demands wine not poppy, and looks upon his destroyed face in a mirror. Three-quarters of his nose is gone along with part of his lip, and the stitching job was sloppy. Tyrion sends the maester away and asks for Podrick Payne. The boy arrives, and Tyrion swears him to silence about what occurred at the docks with Ser Mandon Moore. He tells Pod to bring Maester Frenken, for he does not trust this new maester.

The weather in the Skirling Pass has gotten worse. Qhorin sends Ebben back with the last garron to reach the Lord Commander with all haste, while the rest try to head off pursuit. Watched by the eagle, Qhorin then sends Stonesnake back as well, to take the high passes to reach the Fist of the First Men. Qhorin commands Stonesnake to tell Mormont all that Jon saw: that he faces giants and wargs and worse, and that the trees have eyes again. That night, the Halfhand asks Jon if his sword is sharp, and makes the young man recite his oath with him. Qhorin then commands Jon to yield when they are overtaken, and not to balk no matter what the wildlings ask him to do to prove himself. Jon is appalled at the suggestion, but Qhorin tells him to go among the Wildlings and learn what they plan, watch what they do, but to remember who he is and to return to Mormont when he has learned what the wildlings are searching for. Qhorin promises to tell the Lord Commander that Jon never broke his oath when he sees him again.

Jojen wakes Bran from a wolf dream, and warns him that he's spending too much time as Summer, and that while the wolf eats in the dreams, Bran does not. Bran informs them that Winterfell has been burned to the ground and is all ash except for the stone walls. They have been hiding in the crypts all this time. Trusting Bran’s vision, they decide it is now safe to come out of hiding. Hodor moves a massive stone blocking off the door out of the crypts, and they indeed find Winterfell in ashes. They find several of Theon’s ironmen dead, along with men bearing the badge of the Dreadfort.

Chett's hatred of Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly for usurping his comfortable position as steward to Maester Aemon has boiled over. He and Lark the Sisterman are conspiring to desert the Night's Watch, along with Small Paul and about a dozen other sworn brothers. The traitors plan to kill Lord Commander Mormont and several other officers to prevent anyone from actively seeking them out after they desert.

Ser Jaime is being escorted to King's Landing by Brienne and his cousin, Ser Cleos Frey, by boat. He was released in secrecy from Riverrun by Catelyn after swearing never again to take up arms against the Starks or Tullys, and to honor his brother Tyrion's pledge to release Sansa and Arya. The oath was sworn at sword point and while drunk, and Jaime considers killing Brienne and getting away. He is still chained hand and foot.

Ser Desmond Grell is castellan of Riverrun while Edmure is off at battle and he has confined Catelyn to her father’s rooms for releasing the Kingslayer without the consent of King Robb or Edmure. She is aware Grell has dispatched Ser Robin Ryger to bring back Jaime, and hopes that he fails. Her father's room smells of death and it makes Cat think of Ned and her two youngest boys. Lord Hoster is having fever dreams and mumbling, "Forgive me...the blood...oh, please...Tansy..." "Dead." "…you’ll have others…sweet babes, and trueborn…" Catelyn recalls that Lysa has had five miscarriages since her marriage and deduces that Lysa must have miscarried before marrying as well. She realizes that Jon Arryn had no heir at the time of her and Lysa's twin betrothals. He was older than their father and as a soiled bride, "Lysa was the price Jon Arryn had to pay for the swords of House Tully." She does not know who the father of the original miscarriage might have been. Catelyn writes a letter to Lysa pleading for her to come to Riverrun before their father passes away saying, "He needs your forgiveness," but she realizes Lord Hoster will be gone before the raven even makes it to The Eyrie. Catelyn goes to the sept and lights three candles. One for the Father Above for her own father. One for the Crone "who let the first raven into the world when she peered through the door of death" and one for the Mother for Lysa and all the children they had both lost.

Arya, Gendry, and Hot Pie are using the map she stole from Roose Bolton to find the Trident. She plans to follow the Red Fork to Riverrun, but they seem to be lost. Fearing pursuit, they ride for long hours and exhaust themselves. Arya falls asleep and dreams through the eyes of a wolf. In the dream, she and her pack ravage four members of the Bloody Mummers, killing three and tearing off Iggo’s arm.

Bronn visits Tyrion, who is recovering from his wounds. He finds that much has changed in King's Landing under his father’s rule. He also realizes that his father has seen to it that Tyrion received little of the credit for saving the city. Bronn has been knighted, and now goes by Ser Bronn of the Blackwater. Lord Jacelyn Bywater was killed by his own men during the Battle of the Blackwater, and Ser Addam Marbrand was named Commander of the City Watch. Cersei has returned Tommen to the city, and the Kettleblacks, now all knights, are no longer working for Tyrion. His cousin Tyrek still has not been found, and is feared dead. Additionally, Tyrion's mountain clansmen have been chased out of the city. Some remain in the kingswood, but others return to the Vale. Tyrion asks Bronn to learn more about Ser Mandon Moore, trying to discover if his sister sent the Kingsguard to kill him.

Davos has washed up on the shore of a small island in Blackwater Bay. He remembers swimming beneath the chain boom, and then getting caught by the current and gulping seawater. But, somehow, he is alive, and believes the Seven still have some use for him. Despairing over the loss of four of his sons in the sea battle, he contemplates dying on the island, but decides instead to live. A Lyseni ship rescues him, one of Salladhor Saan’s fleet.

Sansa Stark has supper with Margaery Tyrell and her grandmother, Olenna Tyrell.

Jon is brought before Mance Rayder, since Rattleshirt doesn’t trust him. In the King’s tent, Jon mistakes Styr for Mance Rayder. But it is the gray-haired man playing the lute who is the King-Beyond-the-Wall. Rattleshirt reveals his misgivings about Jon to the king, but Mance wishes to speak with Jon alone.

Illyrio's three ships are sailing for Pentos, and Daenerys is watching her dragons fly over the ocean. Arstan tells her that Balerion was 200 years old when he died during the reign of King Jaehaerys the Conciliator. Arstan then speaks of Rhaegar, how bookish he was as a child, always reading. Then one day he read something in a scroll that made him want to be a warrior, and he began training fiercely. Arstan admits that Rhaegar was a great warrior, but he won no battles.

While hiding in the Tumbledown Tower, Bran gains the ability to open his third eye at will, and become Summer. Jojen again warns him not to spend too much time as Summer, neglecting his body and forgetting what he should do when in contact with his direwolf. They have been traveling north; staying away from civilization for fear that Bran might be seen, especially by the ironmen or Bolton men. Jojen insists they make for the Wall so that Bran can find the three-eyed crow, because Jojen can teach him no more.

Davos learns that his son Devan is alive, and that mainly only the Florents remain to King Stannis. Many of his other bannermen who were captured during the Battle bent the knee to King Joffrey. He also learns that Lord Guncer Sunglass was sacrificed to the fire by Melisandre as an offering to R'hllor. Salladhor tells Davos that Lord Alester is now Hand of the King, but Stannis remains in the Stone Drum and sees no one but Melisandre.

Jaime, Brienne, and Cleos stop at the Inn of the Kneeling Man to eat. The innkeep mentions the Lightning Lord, and we learn that Lord Beric and Thoros are still together raiding in the Riverlands. The innkeep recommends they abandon their skiff and ride for King's Landing. Brienne buys the inn's horses for three gold and their skiff, getting robbed blind according to Jaime. The husband of the innkeeper recommends they follow a specific path to avoid outlaws, and they ride off. Jaime is impressed that Brienne takes the opposite path, realizing they might have been set up.

Tyrion is waiting in Varys' room when the eunuch walks in. The Spider reveals that Tywin Lannister means to restore Pycelle as Grand Maester, since the archmaesters of the Citadel claim that “only the conclave can unmake a Grand Maester”. When the conclave meant to send Maester Gormon, Lord Tywin acted at once, not wishing another Tyrell on the Small Council.

Arya is gathering vegetables when she hears voices. She warns Gendry and Hot Pie. They try to hide but one of their horses gives them away. They are discovered by three men: Tom of Sevenstreams, Lem and Anguy. The men say they are Kingsmen and ask them to come with them to a nearby inn. Arya hesitates but after Anguy shows how skilled he is with the bow she realizes that they stand no chance and she agrees.

Catelyn hears Robb’s return from the west, and recalls that when Edmure returned, dozens of men left after trampling Robb’s banner, all of them Freys. She is brought before her son to explain why she released Jaime Lannister. Rickard Karstark, whose sons Eddard and Torrhen were killed by Jaime, is angry at her but Robb is more gentle and acknowledges that "love is not always wise". Thinking about her daughters whom she had hoped to trade for Ser Jaime, Catelyn agrees. Lord Karstark, however, is unappeased and leaves the room in a fury.

Jon is observing Mance's host, taking note of all the giants and mammoths that make up the army. Tormund is telling Jon some tall tales about himself, when the eagle that was once Orell rakes Jon's face. Rattleshirt has arrived to bring Jon before Mance, this time at the Fist of the First Men. The king confronts Jon about how many men were at the Fist, and who led. Jon, seeing how many of the Watch died here and realizing Mance may kill him for lying, tells the truth. The situation is still tense. Jon feels that Mance may still have him killed because Jon lied to him previously. Briefly he thinks about attacking Mance but Ygritte saves him by telling them that they are lovers. The wildlings respect any man who steals his woman, and Rayder informs Jon that he will be leaving with Styr and Jarl on the morrow to climb the Wall. That night, Jon and Ygritte share a bed together.

Sansa is being fitted for a new gown provided by Queen Cersei. Margaery tells Sansa that she does not fear Joffrey, because her father only conceded her hand in marriage with the provision that Loras was named to the Kingsguard. Her brother will protect her from Joffrey.

Hot Pie has decided to stay with Sharna as a baker at the inn. The others depart for Riverrun, or so Tom tells Arya. Harwin tells Arya the tale of how they first rode out in search of Gregor Clegane, and about all the men they lost when Gregor's men fell on them. Most of the 120 men from the original group are dead, including Lothar Mallery and Gladden Wylde. It was all a trap; Lord Tywin had planned for Eddard himself to ride out and deal with Gregor, but Jaime didn't know of the plan when he attacked Ned in the streets of King's Landing. As Eddard's leg was broken, he had to send others out. Dondarrion and his men learned a sharp lesson when the trap sprung. Dondarrion should have died, having been run through with a lance, but Thoros of Myr saved him. After Tywin became Hand of the King they became outlaws themselves but they kept fighting in the name of King Robert. They harried the foraging parties and attacked the baggage trains of Tywin's army, and their brotherhood began to grow as many flocked to their cause, mostly commoners uprooted by the war.

Sam and the few survivors from the Fist are running south in the middle of night with a heavy snow falling. They are ringed by men with torches to keep the wights away, but Sam is beginning to lag and is near exhaustion. He eventually falls in the snow, and cannot get back on his feet. He recalls the horror that occurred at the Fist, when the wights fell on the Night's Watch. Mormont had commanded him to send ravens with warning, and Sam kept sending them with updates, but when it came time to send a raven with word that their end was near, Sam had already let the birds escape. The Watch held the Fist at first, using fire arrows to hold back the wights. But the dead were relentless and eventually overpowered the Watch, men dying by the score. Mormont had the survivors mount up and form a wedge, slashing past the wights and down off the Fist into the forest. Now they are running for the Wall, pursued by the wights and perhaps the Others.

The small council meets to discuss the progress of the war, and Tyrion learns that Lancel is still near death. Randyll Tarly defeated the northmen attacking Duskendale, with Helman Tallhart reported dead, and Robett Glover fleeing west and being chased by Gregor Clegane. Tywin informs them that Daven Lannister is rounding up a new army and will join with men from the Golden Tooth, and then march on Riverrun when Robb Stark returns north. They all agree that Robb will march for Moat Cailin, for he is a king without a kingdom.

Robb stands with all his bannermen attending as the bodies of Willem Lannister and Tion Frey are laid before him. The Greatjon brings Lord Rickard Karstark and four of his men to Robb as prisoners.

Brienne, Cleos, and Jaime are still travelling to King's Landing. They visit Maidenpool, but finding the town deserted, continue on toward Duskendale. Jaime has no success in provoking Brienne into a fight. He misses his twin and thinks back about their childhood. Even as children they were close and they slept together. Once their mother caught them. She was shocked and moved Jaime's bedchamber far away from Cersei's. Jaime muses that he should marry his sister as the Targaryens did.

The brotherhood without banners searches for Beric Dondarrion, and Arya Stark sees the ghost of High Heart.

Daenerys and one of the master slavers in Astapor are discussing the purchase of Unsullied through a translator. Dany is pretending not to know High Valyrian speech, but she understands everything the slaver is saying to the translator. Kraznys demonstrates the loyalty of the Unsullied, how the eunuchs follow every command given them and feel hardly any pain. Both Daenerys and Arstan are horrified by the conditions the Unsullied live under, and the brutality of their training. The slaver indicates he has 8,000 Unsullied currently for sale. Daenerys informs him she will spend the night considering the offer.

Bran Stark travels through the northern mountains and learns about the Knight of the Laughing Tree.

Davos, imprisoned beneath Dragonstone, is visited by Melisandre. The Red Woman tells Davos that her purpose is to keep darkness at bay. When Davos asks about the shadow she birthed, she tells him that Stannis is too weak, and should she draw more life-energy from him he would die. Melisandre tells Davos that there are only two gods, R'hllor and the Great Other, whose name cannot be spoken. They are opposites, white and black, good and evil, fire and ice. The Other is the god of Darkness, the Soul of Ice and his war with R’hllor is everywhere and everlasting. Melisandre claims that the Other’s servants often hide in plain view, but the priests of R’hllor can see through falsehoods. She explains that she saw in the flames that Davos wanted to murder her. Davos admits to this, blaming her for the death of his sons who died in the Battle of the Blackwater. Melisandre speaks of a prophesy, which portends that Azor Ahai will be born again in the light of R’hllor, and she is convinced that Stannis is the embodiment of this prophecy: "When the red star bleeds and the darkness gathers, Azor Ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone." Melisandre departs, telling him that he (Davos) has served R’hllor once and will do so again.

The night before the planned attempt to scale the Wall, Jon tells Ghost that he cannot come with him, and that they will meet again at Castle Black. Styr forces Jon to tell him more about the patrols the Night's Watch use along the Wall. Jarl and Styr plan to climb the Wall between Stonedoor and Greyguard, where a hill rests against the Wall, making for a shorter climb. Later, Jon and Ygritte spend time in a cavern which supposedly leads from the haunted forest all the way beneath the Wall and beyond, but no one since Gendel and Gorne, the legendary wildling brother kings, knows the way. As they make love, Ygritte asks Jon to stay with her and hide in this cavern forever.

Daenerys tells the slavers that she wants all eight thousand Unsullied, plus all the slave boys in training, whether they've been cut yet or not. In order to pay the slave masters, Daenerys offers all three of her ships as well as Drogon, for the price of a dragon is incalculable. Daenerys frees Missandei and takes her into her service, revealing that she can speak High Valyrian. We learn that Valar Morghulis means 'all men must die'.

Expecting to marry Willas Tyrell, Sansa Stark is forced to marry Tyrion Lannister instead.

Harwin tells Arya about the Battle of the Bells, where her father defeated Lord Connington, Aerys II Targaryen's Hand, in a fierce battle fought in the streets of Stoney Sept. Robert Baratheon was injured and hiding in the city when the Hand’s army invaded the town. Many credit Robert with the victory, but the King always said that Eddard had won that battle. Arya is disturbed to find Northmen being starved in cages, and gives one of them water. They were Karstark men captured by the Mad Huntsman. The Northmen are guilty of rape and pillaging, and Anguy puts them out of their misery.

Jon is watching as Jarl’s men are competing with the Magnar’s to see who will reach the top of the Wall first. Many of the climbers fall to their death, including Jarl, but several eventually reach the top. As long rope ladders are dropped down to the base to allow the others to climb, Jon notices Ygritte with tears in her eyes. She tells him that they never found the Horn of Joramun, which would have helped them bring the Wall down without a fight.

On the way to Harrenhal, Jaime's wound is infected, and he is feverish from the loss of his hand (which has been cut off by Zollo). At the camp some of the Bloody Mummers come to rape Brienne. Jaime knows that if she resists they will probably kill her so he advises her to take her mind far away. He recalls that when Aerys cooked Lord Rickard Stark alive while Brandon died trying to rescue him, Jaime did the same. Brienne is stubborn and wants to resist. Jaime saves her again by yelling “sapphires” loud enough for the Goat to hear. Brienne thanks him as Jaime considers the debt (revenge) that he owes to Vargo Hoat and his Bloody Mummers: a Lannister always pays his debts.

Tyrion visits Symon Silvertongue, and thinks to pay him to leave King's Landing. But the singer wishes to join the tournament of singers that will take place during Joffrey’s wedding. He blackmails Tyrion by indicating that he will tell about his relation with Shae. Tyrion promises him that one of the other singers will be removed, and Bronn will visit him in three days' time. Outside, Tyrion orders Bronn to kill Symon.

Forty-four survivors have reached Craster's Keep, of the 300 men the Watch had at the Fist. Some of the men are becoming ornery because there is so little food, and Craster seems to be hiding a larder. Mormont speaks with Sam about dragonglass, noting in disgust that the Watch once knew the purpose of obsidian weapons. Their true enemies are the Others, but they had forgotten.

Arya and Gendry are blindfolded until they reach the hollow hill, the secret base of the forgotten fellowship. Sandor Clegane is brought bound before Thoros of Myr, and Arya cannot believe how different the red priest looks. The Hound is to be judged by Beric Dondarrion and hanged if found guilty. Thoros is a changed man, no longer a fat priest with a fake flaming sword, saying, "I am not the false priest you knew. The Lord of Light has woken in my soul. Many powers long asleep are waking, and there are forces moving in the land."

Hoster Tully has finally passed away, and his family and bannermen are gathered for the funeral. Lame Lothar Frey and Walder Rivers have come to Riverrun to negotiate a meeting between Robb and Lord Walder Frey that will hopefully restore the alliance. The Lord of Riverrun is placed on a funeral pyre boat launched by Robb, Tytos Blackwood, Jonos Bracken, Jason Mallister, Marq Piper, Karyl Vance and Lothar Frey. Lothar is invited to take the place that would be Desmond Grell's as a gesture of goodwill towards House Frey, as an effort from Robb to apologize for his failure to keep his vow of marrying a Frey. Edmure tries to launch a fire arrow at the ship to light it but he misses three times. He gives the bow to Brynden Tully, who hits the boat, causing it to catch fire.

Axell Florent brings Davos Seaworth before King Stannis Baratheon, taking the torch with him to leave his brother Alester alone in the darkness of the cells. Axell tells Davos in private that he has seen Stannis's victory in the flames, and if Davos does not help him become Hand, he will see the Onion Knight killed. Stannis proclaims that Alester will die for treason, and he has Axell tell Davos of his plan to invade Claw Isle. Davos calls the plan a folly, and Stannis dismisses the enraged Axell. Stannis mentions that Barristan Selmy once told him that "the rot in King Aerys's reign began with Varys", and that Robert should have killed the eunuch, and sent Jaime Lannister to the Wall as Lord Eddard Stark had suggested, but Robert listened to Jon Arryn instead.

Jaime and Brienne are in the bathhouse in Harrenhal, washing themselves before meeting Roose Bolton. Jaime feels dizzy in the hot bath, and begins to tell Brienne his story despite his own misgivings about revealing the tale. Jaime says, "Aerys would have bathed in wildfire if he’d dared. The Targaryens were all mad for fire." After the Battle of the Bells, Aerys realized that Robert Baratheon was no mere outlaw, and that the Targaryens faced their greatest threat since the Blackfyre Pretenders. He began to disperse his Kingsguard to take command of the army, recalled Rhaegar from the south, and sent letters to Casterly Rock. But when Tywin Lannister never responded, Aerys commanded his pyromancers Rossart, Garigus and Belis “to place caches of wildfire throughout King's Landing.” Lord Chelsted, the current Hand, found out what was going on and tried to stop Aerys from continuing along his mad course, but Aerys had him killed and named the pyromancer Rossart, the man who had burned Rickard Stark alive, his Hand.

Tyrion has been sent to greet the three hundred Dornishmen with a small retinue. However, he is shocked when he finds that the Dornishmen are being led by Prince Oberyn Martell and not his brother, Prince Doran. The Red Viper of Dorne has an infamous reputation for using poisoned weapons in battle. The man fought in the Free Cities and even formed his own sellsword company, he studied at the Citadel for a time, and most importantly, he crippled Willas Tyrell in a tourney. Though this was years ago, it has never been forgotten by the Tyrells, who will not be happy that this man is attending the marriage of one of them.

Lord Beric Dondarrion's brotherhood without banners attack a septry held by several members of the Bloody Mummers. Sandor Clegane abducts Arya Stark.

Bran and the others reach a small, deserted village on a lake. There is a holdfast tower on an island in the middle of the lake, and Bran tells them that Good Queen Alysanne once stayed there. Brandon's Gift is a strip of land south of the Wall to a distance of 25 leagues which was once given to the Night's Watch to support them. The New Gift, given to the Watch by Queen Alysanne and her husband King Jaehaerys I, doubled that distance. Bran tells them there is a secret walkway just beneath the lake’s surface that will allow them to reach the tower.

Jon is with the Magnar’s men nearing a village alongside a lake. He realizes that he must somehow escape and reach Castle Black before the raiders do, in order to warn them. The Thenns captured an old man camped in one of the ruined houses, and Styr commands Jon to kill the man. Jon balks, but Ygritte slits the man’s throat with her dagger. As Styr begins to command his men in the Old Tongue, a crash of thunder sounds, and suddenly a direwolf is attacking the Thenns. Jon mistakes the wolf for Ghost or Grey Wind for a moment, wondering if Robb returned to the North, but he never realizes that it is Summer. The direwolf slaughters several wildlings, and in the confusion, Jon mounts the old man’s horse and begins to flee. He is hit with an arrow in the calf, believing the shot was fired by Ygritte. Jon gets away, forcing the horse to gallop for hours without rest, heading for Castle Black.

Daenerys and her army of Unsullied reach Yunkai, to find the city guarded by a huge force including two sellsword companies. She knows that open battle will cost her many lives, even though her commanders feel she will win easily. Daenerys tells her men to invite the two sellsword Captains, as well as the Yunkish leader. The first to arrive are the three Captains of the Stormcrows, who spurn her offer to join her, although she notices Daario Naharis smile at her as they leave. The Captain of the Second Sons also laughs at her offer, but does accept a wagonload of wine to bring to his men. The master slaver brings Daenerys chests full of gold hoping she will leave Yunkai alone, but she sends him off with his gold and a warning that she will attack in three days time.

Arya Stark and the brotherhood without banners visit the ghost of High Heart. Arya escapes the outlaws but is captured by the Hound.

Roose Bolton has left Harrenhal to the Goat, but before marching for the Twins he told Jaime to give his warm regards to his father. Jaime responds, "So long as you give mine to Robb Stark."

Traveling in the rain to the Twins for the wedding of Lord Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey, Catelyn recalls Robb sending Ser Rolph Spicer to deliver Martyn Lannister to the Golden Tooth in an exchange of captives, with Robett Glover put on a ship at Duskendale as part of the agreement. Robb left his wife Jeyne at Riverrun, and only Ser Raynald Westerling travels with them. Robb has brought 3,500 men with him, those who have been with him since the battle in the Whispering Wood, and who will follow him to Moat Cailin after the wedding. While passing through the site of the battle, Catelyn thinks of Theon Greyjoy boasting he had almost crossed swords with Ser Jaime and how much ill would have been undone if Theon had died in place of Lord Karstark's sons.

Sam and Gilly have reached what appears to be Whitetree. When Sam studies the carved face of the Heart Tree for a moment, he admits to himself that it is not the face he and his brothers saw when they started out on the ranging. Nor does he remember its red eyes weeping blood (sap). Sam prays earnestly to the old gods to protect them. He and Gilly camp in one of the wildling huts for the night, but Sam is woken by shapes moving within. The corpse of Small Paul comes after Sam, and he tries to stab it with the obsidian dagger, but it shatters upon contact with Paul’s chainmail. Despairing, Sam thrusts a burning stick from the campfire in the wight’s mouth, setting it on fire. Outside the hut, the wights begin to surround Gilly and her infant son after killing their horse. Thinking all is lost, a raven lands on Sam’s shoulder, and suddenly thousands of ravens fly from the branches of the weirwood tree to tear the wights to pieces. The raven perching on Sam's shoulder speaks, telling him to go, and he and Gilly begin to run south, but without their horse they fear they'll be overtaken by wights. Suddenly a voice calls out, "Brother! Here." From the falling snow appears a man dressed all in black astride a great elk. When Sam reaches up for the man’s bare hand, Sam notices his hand is black and cold as ice.

Arya attempts to kill the Hound at night while the man is asleep, but he awakens and takes the rock from her hands. They reach Lord Harroway's Town, but find it flooded. Sandor promises to pay some ferrymen to take them across the Trident, but gives them only the parchment Lord Beric had given him promising reimbursement after the war. Arya tells Sandor that she had once been captured by his brother, and the Hound finds it amusing that Gregor never knew who he had caught. Clegane says, "I’ll be sure and tell him that, before I cut his heart out." She asks why he would kill his brother and the Hound asks didn't she ever want to kill a brother or sister? He realizes from Arya’s expression that the "wolf bitch" hates the "pretty bird"--Arya and her sister don't get along. Sandor admits that maybe he is a monster for killing so many but also tells her that he saved Sansa’s life when the mob tried to kill her. The Hound informs her that he is taking her to the Twins, and will ransom her to Robb and perhaps join the Young Wolf’s service, because "even a dog gets tired of being kicked."

Jon Snow reaches Mole's Town and warns the populace to evacuate. At Castle Black, Jon learns that Jarman Buckwell and his men have returned with tidings of Mance Rayder’s army. He discovers that the wildlings have been feinting all along the Wall, and groups of black brothers have been dispersed to counter them. Maester Aemon also tells him that Jeor Mormont was betrayed and killed, and that only twelve men made it back from Craster's Keep, including Giant, Grenn, Dywen, Sweet Donnel Hill and Dolorous Edd. Aemon cleans and wraps Jon’s wound, and Grenn tells him that Winterfell has been burned to the ground and that Bran and Rickon Stark are dead at the hands of Theon Greyjoy. Jon tells them that there is some kind of mistake, for he saw a grey direwolf at Queenscrown. Jon wonders if Bran lives on through his direwolf.

Robb's host approaches the Twins in the rain. Robb rides at the head with Catelyn, Edmure beside him, and Ser Raynald bearing his banner. Catelyn cautions Robb again about offending Lord Walder Frey, and advises him to ask for food and wine as soon as they arrive to secure the guest right. They are met by a contingent headed by Ser Ryman Frey, Lord Frey's grandson, and three of Ryman's sons: Edwyn, Black Walder, and Petyr Pimple. When they come near, Grey Wind begins to growl and leaps forward, causing Petyr's horse to throw him. Ser Ryman is angered that Queen Jeyne is not among them and Catelyn offers her apologies, but Black Walder says that Lord Walder will be displeased. The Freys tell them they have rooms prepared for Robb, Catelyn, and Edmure, and their bannermen at the Water Tower, but Robb's army is to cross the bridge to the far end and join the men of Lord Frey and Lord Roose Bolton beneath pavilions erected for the wedding.

Sandor and Arya arrive at the Twins where Sandor hopes to ransom Arya to her family. To get there The Hound had robbed a farmer of his wagon and casks to disguise themselves as simple farmers who have come to bring pork to the feast. The castle is closed so they are sent to the pavilions instead where the common soldiers are. Arya recognizes a few coats of arms but there is nobody she knows. The soldiers drink to the health of Queen Jeyne whose name is unfamiliar to Arya. As Sandor wants to ransom Arya they head to the castle.

Catelyn listens to the continuous pounding noise of the drums the musicians in the hall are playing. She is seated between Ryman Frey and Roose Bolton during the wedding feast. She remarks to herself how joyless the wedding is, and watches as Robb dances with several of the Frey maids and Edmure dotes on his soon to be wife, Roslin. Catelyn becomes more wary when she learns that Olyvar, Perwyn, and Alesander Frey are all not in attendance at the wedding. She notices Merrett Frey trying to drink the Greatjon under the table, and finally Lord Walder Frey calls for the bedding. Robb does not participate as the Greatjon carries a weeping Roslin to the bed chamber.

Arya and Sandor try to reach the castle. Arya notices that the gate is opened and armed riders are beginning to come out from the castle toward the pavilions where the Stark host is celebrating the wedding. She hears a wolf howling and music she faintly recognizes. The pavilions that the Stark host are celebrating in have been rigged to collapse. The riders from the castle attack the northmen, collapsing the pavilions and setting them on fire. Arya and The Hound are spotted by the Frey men and have to defend themselves. Arya wants to go the castle where her mother and her brother are but the Hound tells her they are already dead. Arya tries to run to the castle but the Hound rides her down, bringing his great axe down upon her head.

Tyrion receives the news that Robb and Catelyn Stark are dead. The end of the war is within reach and Lord Tywin intends to be generous to Stark allies, but Joffrey wants all traitors executed and accuses his grandfather of cowardice during Robert's Rebellion. Tywin orders Joffrey to be escorted to his bedchamber, and Cersei leaves after an unsuccessful attempt to defend him. On the Dornish issue, Tywin reveals that he will not sacrifice Gregor Clegane to the Martells. Tyrion is shocked, and Tywin explains his rationale at the time of the Sack of King’s Landing and the murder of Elia Martell and her children. He also reveals that Arya Stark is still alive.

Salladhor Saan tells King Stannis Baratheon of the Red Wedding, how the Freys sewed the head of Robb Stark's direwolf, Grey Wind, on the king's shoulders and nailed a crown on its head. Catelyn Stark was slain and thrown naked into the river. Queen Selyse and Axell Florent declare that it was the hand of R'hllor that killed the usurpers, but Stannis knows it was Lord Walder Frey's handiwork. When Stannis wants to send word that he will pardon any ironman or northman who swears fealty, Melisandre tells him that her flames revealed that new kings will pick up where the old ones died. The Seven Kingdoms must be shown a sign, but Stannis has heard enough talk of stone dragons, knowing of all the follies the Targaryens caused by trying to return the dragons to life.

Donal Noye and Jon have done the best they could to fortify Castle Black from the impending attack of Styr and his raiders. The castles along the Wall were designed defenseless, as the Night's Watch was not meant to be able to repel a force from the South. Castle Black was meant specifically to be protected from wildlings by the Wall itself. When Styr, the Magnar of the Thenns, and his men attack, many of the defenders die, while Jon and Satin fire arrows from one of the roofs. At one point, Jon has Ygritte in his sights but he cannot loose an arrow at her.

Reaching the Nightfort, Bran recalls all the horror tales he’s heard about this castle, such as the stories of the Rat Cook, Mad Axe, and the Night's King. Before it was abandoned by the Watch some two hundred years before, the Nightfort had once been the greatest castle along the Wall. However, Meera and Jojen Reed are unafraid of the ancient castle. They sleep that night in the kitchens, near a seemingly bottomless well. Deep in the night, Bran is woken by footsteps coming from the well. He awakens Meera, and then takes control of Hodor’s body as he does when he enters Summer.

Meereen is enclosed by a great wall, with hundreds of defenders to guard it. Daenerys’s huge army consists mostly of freed slaves. They are eating up the surrounding lands, and Daenerys realizes that she must claim the city before the army starves. Aware that storming the walls will cost her a great deal, Daenerys sends Strong Belwas to dispatch the Hero of Meereen. Belwas kills Oznak zo Pahl, but the city still stands strong. Brown Ben Plumm reveals a way into the city through the sewers, and we find out that Dany’s dragons seem to like Brown Ben, and perch on his shoulder when he visits.

Tyrion is lying in bed beside his wife. Dreadful details of the Red Wedding have reached King's Landing, about how the Freys mutilated the corpses of Robb Stark and Catelyn Tully. Tyrion has tried to keep those stories from Sansa and wants to comfort her but he knows she will never take comfort from a Lannister. He leaves to visit Shae in the room where the dragon skulls are kept, but he remembers his recent conversation with Varys. The eunuch warned him that if confronted by the Queen, he would tell her the truth about Shae. Tyrion realizes that if he is to save Shae, he must either send her away or marry her off. After she pleases him, he decides that he will marry her to Ser Tallad, and Cersei will never think to find out who she is.

Sansa has learned from Tyrion the fate of her brother and mother at the Red Wedding. She and her husband join many other guests at the Queen’s Ballroom to give Joffrey his wedding gifts. It is a new year, the 300th since Aegon's Conquest, and Joffrey’s wedding is that night. Tyrion presents his nephew with a copy of Grand Maester Kaeth’s Lives of Four Kings, one of only four copies in existence written by Kaeth himself. Kevan tells the King it is "A book every king should read." Joffrey is disappointed with the gift, and hacks the book in half with the Valyrian sword his grandfather had just given him. Joffrey remarks that he is no stranger to Valyrian steel, and also that Tyrion owes him another gift. Tyrion suggests a Valyrian dagger with a dragonbone hilt, which seems to unsettle Joffrey for a moment before he says it is a good idea but wants one with a gold hilt instead.

Tyrion puzzles out how his nephew must have found Littlefinger’s Valyrian dagger amongst Robert’s possessions, assuming that the king had probably forgotten he even owned it. Joffrey must then have paid some unsavory freerider to open Bran’s throat, though Tyrion still cannot figure out why, attributing it to Joffrey's innate cruelty for the moment. Tyrion is slightly drunk while Joffrey and Margaery are wed in the Great Sept of Baelor, and continues to drink until night falls and it is time for the great wedding feast. As they enter the ballroom, Olenna, the Queen of Thorns, comes over to tell Sansa how beautiful she looks, and the old lady straightens out the hairnet that Dontos gave her. Many at the wedding offer their condolences to Sansa on the loss of her mother and brother; watching his wife's courteous and friendly nature to the other guests, Tyrion muses she would have made Joffrey a great queen and wife if he'd had the sense to love her, something Tyrion believes his nephew incapable of.

Sansa has fled to the Godswood, and when she removes her hairnet, she notices that one of the black amethysts is missing. Dontos told her she must wear it for the wedding feast, but she now remembers that the amethysts are from Asshai, and that Dontos called the hairnet “magic”. Dontos then appears in the godswood, and Sansa accuses him of murdering the King by using one of the amethysts. Dontos denies it, telling her Tyrion has already been arrested for poisoning the King. She dresses under a heavy cloak, and Dontos leads her to a secret stairway down to the river. They are rowed out to a ship, and Sansa is shocked to find Littlefinger on board. When Dontos calls for his reward of ten thousand gold dragons, Littlefinger commands Lothor Brune to kill the drunk.

At an unnamed inn on the road to King's Landing, Jaime hears that the king is dead, his firstborn son, but he is more concerned about Cersei. Jaime and Brienne have already learned of Robb Stark’s demise, and found out that Lord Clement Piper rode to King’s Landing to bend the knee since his son Marq is held captive at the Twins. When they arrive at the Red Keep, Ser Loras confronts Brienne, accusing her of killing Renly. Jaime reminds the Knight of Flowers that he is his Lord Commander and orders him to sheathe his sword, but has Brienne arrested and taken to a tower cell.

Davos and a few hand-picked men he knows to be loyal only to Stannis begin their mission in the dark of night. They find Edric Storm in Pylos' solar, and the maester tells the boy to listen to Davos, as he is the King's Hand. Davos and his men bring Edric in secrecy to a ship of Salladhor's, and Davos tells the boy that he must go with Ser Andrew Estermont on an adventure. With the boy safely away from Dragonstone, Davos goes to face Stannis. He tells the King that Joffrey is dead, and Melisandre states that Tommen will be named king. When she asks Stannis for the boy, the King warns her that she will pay with her life if she is wrong. Melisandre is sure that Stannis is the one prophesied 5,000 years ago, that the comet was his herald. But Davos reveals that Edric Storm is gone, and judges based on her reaction that Melisandre has not foreseen this in her flames. Davos tells Stannis that a king must protect his people or he is no king at all. When Stannis draws Lightbringer to behead Davos, the Onion Knight begins to read out the letter that Maester Pylos received from the Night's Watch.



Arya dreams that she is running with a pack of wolves every night, but by day she is still Sandor’s captive. The Hound hit her with the flat of his axe to keep her from entering the Twins. Sandor now intends to take her to the Eyrie and ransom her to Lady Lysa. That night, Arya dreams the wolf dream again, and she watches as the other wolves feast on corpses by the river. She follows a scent that leads her to her mother’s body, and pulls it from the river. Looking at the corpse, Arya’s wolf-self thinks "Rise. Rise and eat and run with us." Then, the pack notices men approaching and flees. Arya wakes up. At some point they encounter a survivor from the Red Wedding, a bowman in service to Ser Marq Piper. The man is injured, and they give him water, then Sandor gives him the gift of mercy. Later, she and Sandor take on work in a village in the foothill of the Mountains of the Moon, and learn that the Vale mountain clans have grown bolder and now carry steel. Realizing they will never reach the Eyrie, Clegane decides to head back to Riverrun and attempt to ransom Arya to the Blackfish. Arya tells the Hound that he has lost his belly for fighting since he ran from the Battle of the Blackwater, but he just laughs at her.

Tyrion Lannister is imprisoned in a tower cell of the Red Keep. His uncle Kevan tells him that Tywin, Mace Tyrell, and Oberyn Martell will stand in judgment of him. When Tyrion claims he may demand trial by combat, his uncle replies that Cersei will name Gregor Clegane as her champion. Tyrion sends for Bronn, but finds the former sellsword to be a changed man, soon to marry Lollys Stokeworth, and now being paid well by the Queen. The mercenary leaves Tyrion to fend for himself, unwilling to stand for the dwarf against the Mountain.

Jaime is looking through the White Book, the history of the Kingsguard, updated throughout the ages by the Lord Commander. We learn much about Barristan Selmy, who gained the title ‘the Bold’ when he was just ten, riding as a mystery knight in a tourney at Blackhaven, where he was unmasked by the Prince of Dragonflies. Barristan was knighted at sixteen by King Aegon V, and named to the Kingsguard in his 23rd year by Gerold Hightower.

Sansa is alarmed to discover that Littlefinger has no intention of bringing her home; instead she is being taken to the Vale of Arryn. They land at the tiny tower of House Baelish that Petyr is lord of, and he stresses that Sansa must use a new name, calling her Alayne Stone so that no one will know who she really is.

Mance’s raiders advance under the protection of a giant fortified turtle but the Night's Watch is able to destroy it. Afterwards, Jon tries to get some sleep, but is pulled out of bed by some men from Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. They bring him before Alliser Thorne, and his new friend Janos Slynt. The two accuse Jon of being a turncloak and oathbreaker, and they even use the captured Rattleshirt to support their accusations. Even Maester Aemon cannot persuade Slynt to relent, and the former Commander of the City Watch has Jon thrown into an ice cell, relishing the thought of punishing one of Ned Stark’s sons.

Tyrion wakes up in the morning and readies himself to go to the trial. He considers admitting guilt or demanding a trial by battle. He asks his squire if he thinks that Tyrion did it. Podrick hesitates and sputters.

Daenerys sits in the great pyramid of Meereen, her troops having conquered the city after the men she sent into the sewers opened the gates. She meets an envoy from Astapor, who represents King Cleon the great, a former butcher who now rules Astapor, supposedly in Dany’s name. But the envoy suggests that King Cleon wishes to marry Dany, and that the men she left to rule Astapor have all been deposed. Cleon has amassed new slaves, and is beginning to train them as Unsullied, and Daenerys is dismayed that all she has done to free Astapor of slavery is coming undone.

Jaime is seated with the small council, as King Tommen signs all the papers brought before him by Ser Kevan. The Lannisters are granting Riverrun to Ser Emmon Frey and Kevan's sister Genna, once the Blackfish has surrendered. They legitimize Ramsay Snow and name Roose Bolton Warden of the North. Ser Rolph Spicer is granted Castamere, and raised to lord, and Lord Gawen Westerling, his wife, and daughter Jeyne are all granted a royal pardon, along with Lord Jonos Bracken, Lord Vance, Lord Goodbrook and Lord Mooton for entering King Tommen's service. Jaime had recently lost during a spar with Ser Addam Marbrand, and is disgusted that he cannot fight left-handed, especially after receiving the new Valyrian sword from his father.

Jon is taken out of his ice cell and brought once again before Janos Slynt, and told that only Maester Aemon is preventing Janos from hanging Jon. Janos reveals that he will give Jon one last chance to prove his innocence, sending him to meet Mance Rayder as an envoy, but Jon must kill the wildling king. Beyond the Wall, Jon meets Tormund who treats him with respect, almost as a friend. Jon is brought before Mance, and the king reveals that he is aware that the Night's Watch is nearly out of provisions and cannot hold out much longer.

Sandor Clegane and Arya Stark come to the inn at the crossroads. To Arya's dismay, she recognizes Polliver and the Tickler with a pimply squire. The squire tries to bait Sandor with insults about fleeing King's Landing and the room is tense. The Hound demands wine, which the innkeeper brings and Sandor gulps down. When Sandor claims the men-at-arms will torture the innkeep for his gold, the innkeep, his girls, and other patrons vacate the common room.

At Castle Black, Gilly is nursing both her own son as well as Mance Rayder's, as Dalla died giving birth. Sam and Gilly have recently returned to Castle Black, meeting up with Ser Denys Mallister and the men from the Shadow Tower. They also joined with Dywen, Edd and Giant, survivors from the Bridge of Skulls where Bowen Marsh held back the Weeper's advance. Sam is happy to be reunited with Jon, although he is wary of King Stannis's army being present at Castle Black. It was the king who defeated the wildlings, scattering their remnants back into the haunted forest. Val wants to bring her sister's baby to Mance, but Jon tells her that only Maester Aemon is permitted to see the imprisoned wildling king. Alone, Sam asks Jon, "Could there be honor in a lie, if it were told for a good purpose?" Sam is considering sending Gilly and her son to Horn Hill, with a letter claiming that he fathered the boy.

Jon is training with Satin in the yard, when Melisandre arrives to take him before Stannis. The King does not believe Jon is a traitor, for he knew Janos Slynt as well as Ned Stark. Stannis knew Ned to be a man of honor, and trusts Jon, saying it was Jon who found the dragonglass dagger that Samwell Tarly used to kill the Other, and Jon who brought them the Horn of Winter and captured Mance’s son. At every step of Stannis' speech, Jon clarifies whom he credits with doing the actual deeds. Stannis asks Jon if there is honor in Mance Rayder, and the young man claims there is. The King speaks of the war that Melisandre has seen in her flames, and he confides that Jon may have a part in the upcoming battle. Stannis offers to legitimize Jon and name him Lord of Winterfell, a goal he considers especially important due to all the strife occurring in the North. Stannis intends to let the wildlings through the Wall, and settle them in the Gift, should they pledge fealty and accept the Lord of Light as their god. He also presumes to marry his loyal Lord of Winterfell to Val to solidify his peace with the wildlings, however Jon would have to adopt Stannis' faith and burn the godswood of Winterfell. Jon asks for time to consider the offer, and Stannis agrees.

Tyrion, locked in the black cells beneath the Red Keep, is rescued by Jaime. His brother tells him that he is to be beheaded on the morrow, and informs him that he coerced Varys into helping him charter a ship to take Tyrion from King's Landing. When Jaime tells him that the rescue was a debt he owed him, Tyrion presses his brother, and learns that Tysha was not a whore, but a crofter’s daughter, just as she appeared. Lord Tywin had forced Jaime all those years ago to lie about Tysha so as to teach Tyrion a lesson. Tyrion is infuriated that his brother never told him the truth, and punches Jaime in the face. Tyrion warns him that he will exact revenge against him, their father, and Cersei, as a Lannister always pays his debts. Jaime then asks if Tyrion poisoned Joffrey and, lying in his anger, Tyrion admits to doing so. He also tells Jaime that Cersei is sleeping with Lancel and Ser Osmund and perhaps others, and that Joffrey would have been a monster worse than Aerys if he remained king.

King Stannis has brought several of the black brothers before him to make known his anger about them taking too long to select a new Lord Commander. Stannis sees through Janos Slynt’s fawning, having known the man as a bribe-taker in King's Landing. The king makes it clear that after they finally vote in a new Lord Commander, he plans to take all the castles along the Wall, except for the three currently occupied by the Watch, to garrison his forces. He also plans to either take or be granted the Gift, stating that he intends to help the Watch guard the Wall. He commands the builders to deliver reports on the conditions of the abandoned castles, and informs the men gathered that nightfires will be lit before the gates of all the castles. When Melisandre mentions the impending war, Maester Aemon is aware that she speaks of the prophesied War for the Dawn. After the others have left, Aemon asks to see the fabled sword Lightbringer through Sam’s eyes. Sam describes the sword as glowing, yet there are no flames.

Jon practices swords in the yard with Iron Emmett, another brother of the Night's Watch. Emmett hits Jon hard and Jon is knocked into thoughts of Winterfell and his boyhood rivalry with Robb. Part of him always wanted to become Lord of Winterfell and resented that it was impossible for him. These feelings come up so strong that he beats Emmett mercilessly and has to be pulled off him. Jon goes to the bathhouse, and overhears Ser Alliser and Bowen Marsh mentioning that Lord Tywin sent a letter backing Janos Slynt’s rise to Lord Commander. They show it to Othell Yarwyck, seeking to have the First Builder withdraw and back Slynt. Jon is disturbed by the prospect of Slynt becoming Lord Commander, and goes off through the gate beyond the Wall. He is torn between his duties to the Watch, and the chance Stannis has given him to become Jon Stark, Lord of Winterfell. As he is considering that he has always wanted this, his thoughts change to a hunger for food. No, not food but prey - deer or elk. When he looks up, Ghost comes padding over. He is overjoyed to see his old friend.

At the Eyrie, Sansa awakens to find it snowing outside. She wanders outside and begins to sculpt a snow castle, slowly forming it into a replica of Winterfell. Littlefinger finds her in the garden and helps her finish the castle. He tells her she is even more beautiful than her mother was at her age, and then proceeds to kiss her. Sansa is shocked by Lord Baelish’s action, but for half a heartbeat she yields. She tries to make him stop and then young Robert approaches interrupting them. Robert begins to destroy the snow castle with his ragged doll. Sansa reacts by grabbing the doll which causes it to tear in half. This in turn causes her cousin to begin shaking violently. Maester Colemon is called to bring the boy for a leeching, in an attempt to cure the fit.

Merrett Frey is approaching the ruins of Oldstones with the ransom for his half-brother's (Stevron Frey's) grandson Petyr Pimple. He is considering all the ill luck throughout his life, starting as a squire, where in a battle against the Kingswood Brotherhood he got hit on the head so hard he was unable to ever truly fight again, which left him unable to reach knighthood. His father has always mocked him as "Merrett Muttonhead", and all he was good for during the Red Wedding was to drink the Greatjon under the table.

The Prologue of A Feast for Crows is set in Oldtown. The characters are students of the Citadel of Oldtown. The main character is Pate, an unsuccessful student.

Aeron Greyjoy, who in the chapter is referred to as "the prophet", is drowning men at a beach on Great Wyk. This a practice in which a worshiper of the Drowned God is held below the water until he drowns. The priest then resuscitates him. Through this initiation the person is stronger:

Prince Doran has been at the Water Gardens for nearly two years now, watching the children play in the pools while trying to deal with his gout. Captain Areo Hotah hears the approach of Obara Sand, eldest of the Red Viper's bastard daughters, and bars her from disturbing Prince Doran's rest. Deadly as she may be, she is no match for the Captain, but the Prince calls her into his presence before they come to blows. Obara demands justice for her father, imploring Prince Doran to marshal the Dornish army and give half to her so she might march on Oldtown and burn it to the ground, and the other half to her half-sister Lady Nym to march up the Kingsroad. Doran tells her that his brother was not murdered, but died in single combat, and that Lord Tywin has promised them Ser Gregor's head. Unappeased, Obara mocks her uncle for his meekness and stalks off after he tells her to await his word in Sunspear. Fearing an uprising in Sunspear incited by the Sand Snakes, Prince Doran tells Hotah that he must return to his seat at the Palace of the Sun. The Captain reminds him that Princess Myrcella is there, and that Ser Arys Oakheart sends letters to Queen Cersei. Hotah thinks that he and the Kingsguard will eventually cross swords, and when that occurs the Captain will kill him.

Cersei has a nightmare that features Tyrion mocking her. She is woken to be informed of Lord Tywin's murder. She gives order to make sure that Tyrion is safely in his cell and reflects on who could be behind the murder, settling for Stannis and the Tyrells as suspects. In a rush of desire for her brother, Cersei asks Jaime to take the position of Hand, but is rejected and settles for Ser Kevan. Information arrives that Tyrion has escaped.

Brienne travels to Duskendale, seeking the whereabouts of Sansa as she was charged to do by Jaime. Having found few leads in King's Landing, Brienne asks nearly everyone she can along the roads and villages, but she never mentions Sansa by name. Upon the road beyond Rosby, she comes upon a camp with Illifer the Penniless and Creighton Longbough, two hedge knights who offer to share their meal. Mistaking her at first for a man, Ser Illifer later remarks on how Brienne bears a shield with the sigil of House Lothston, a disgraced family who once held Harrenhal. Brienne was given the shield by Ser Jaime, who had taken it from Harrenhal. When she tells the two that she lost her own shield, Illifer figures out by her size that she must be Brienne, murderess of King Renly. The Maid of Tarth denies having killed Renly, and the hedge knights agree to travel with her to Duskendale.

The events of this chapter are later revisited in Chapter 7 of A Dance with Dragons, but from Jon's perspective rather than Samwell Tarly's.

Nearing Braavos, Arya recalls how she originally wanted Captain Ternesio Terys to sail for the Wall. She had no such luck, but concluded that the Free Cities would be a good place to land, considering that Syrio Forel came from Braavos and possibly Jaqen H'ghar as well.

Cersei arrives at the Great Sept of Baelor for Tywin's wake. She worries. Tommen seems to have a cold and the current High Septon was appointed by Tyrion. She wonders if she should have him removed. Tommen and Cersei both notice the stench that is emanating from her father's corpse.

Standing a planned seven day vigil over his father's funeral bier, Jaime finds himself with a lot of time for thinking. He feels that he is as much to blame for his father's death as Tyrion or Varys. He also finds himself wondering what happened to the eunuch. His thoughts then turn to the day that Prince Rhaegar rode for the Trident. Jaime had begged not to be left behind to guard the king, but Rhaegar told him that Aerys feared Lord Tywin more than he did Robert, and meant to keep Jaime at his side as insurance. Mounting up, Rhaegar's last words to Jaime were, "When this battle's done I mean to call a council. Changes will be made. I meant to do it long ago, but...well, it does no good to speak of roads not taken." Finally, Jaime recalls his recent questioning of the chief undergaoler, which was a complete farce as Jaime knew far more than the man did, since he was the perpetrator.

When Brienne reaches Duskendale, she finds the gates barred for the night. The area surrounding it is littered with corpses of both northmen and men from the Reach.[1]

Marillion is singing day and night. Because his cell is open, his songs can be heard throughout the castle. Although Marillion has a beautiful voice, Sansa does not like the sound of his singing. She asks Petyr if he cannot silence the singer. Littlefinger explains to Sansa that they need Marillion. With some persuasion, Marillion has confessed to the murder of Lysa. In return for his confession, Littlefinger has spared his life and his voice. Petyr tells Sansa that she has to corroborate Marillion's confession. Sansa knows that Marillion did not murder Lysa and therefore hesitates. She has no pity for the singer as he has tried to rape her, but she is afraid that people will see through her lies.

Asha is at Ten Towers waiting for her supporters to arrive. The feast is almost over. There are many Harlaws in the hall but not enough of the other houses. Asha knows she lacks support.

Cersei is remembering her concession to the Queen of Thorns to allow Tommen and Margaery to sleep in the same bed on their wedding night only, when Jaime arrives to speak to her. He asks if she still means to burn down the Tower of the Hand after the wedding, but she is determined to see it destroyed, and hopefully smoke out a few rats in the process. We begin to notice changes in Cersei, including weight gain and overindulgence in alcohol. Tommen's wedding is a modest affair compared to his brother's, and the ceremony goes over well enough. Afterwards, Kevan comes over to Cersei and mentions that Sandor Clegane is reported to have joined Beric Dondarrion's outlaws. The queen is already aware of this, having heard that outlaws have pillaged Saltpans and savagely raped the townswomen. The report mentioned that they were led by a huge man in a hound's head helmet.

Slipping through the shadow city of Sunspear during the night for a rendezvous with Princess Arianne, Ser Arys Oakheart considers how unlikely it is for an Oakheart to even be in Dorne. Hailing from the Reach, the Oakhearts have long been enemies of the Dornish. The kingsguard knight left Myrcella playing cyvasse with Prince Trystane, and under the protection of the prince's sworn shield Ser Gascoyne. Arys recalls his recent first meeting with Prince Doran, who advised him that Myrcella would be safer at the Water Gardens. All her guards and Ser Arys would accompany them there, but Doran asked him not to write King's Landing about the move. When he arrives at Arianne's secret location, he swears he will do no more than tell her it has to end, but her nakedness overwhelms him.

Drawing near Maidenpool, Pod Payne can't seem to remember if Brienne is a knight or a lady, frequently calling her "My Lady. Ser." Brienne has taken up his training, abandoned since Aron Santagar was killed by the mob in King's Landing. They soon come upon a farmer, his wife and their cart of eggs bound for Maidenpool. As they ride together, the farmer tells Brienne that the town has been mostly rebuilt, thanks to the hard hand of Randyll Tarly. The Maid of Tarth hopes she can slip through town without encountering the Lord of Horn Hill, as she owes him a debt but bears no liking for the man. At the gates of Maidenpool, the captain informs the farmer that he will take his eggs and wife, forcing Brienne to draw her sword. Outnumbered by the gate guards, she is spared fighting by the appearance of Hyle Hunt, a knight highly placed in Lord Tarly's army and a man whom Brienne despises.

Sam is trying his best to keep both Gilly and himself calm during the tumultuous sea trip to Braavos. The Night's Watch ship Blackbird will take them only so far as Braavos, and then Sam will need to find tender there bound for Oldtown. Sam is hopeful that the others making the journey with him will find happiness when they reach their destination: Gilly and the babe at Horn Hill, Maester Aemon back at the Citadel, and Dareon in his new role as a recruiter. The old maester tells them the story of his sea trip to the Wall- how he traveled with Lord Commander Duncan the Tall as his honor guard, along with Brynden Rivers, Lord Bloodraven himself, who was sent by Egg to serve out the remainder of his life in the Watch.

An honor procession flanks Lord Tywin's casket as it heads west, led by many of the Lannister bannermen.[1] Jaime Lannister falls in with his uncle Kevan, and they discuss the raid on Saltpans. Jaime cautions his uncle not to try and take on Sandor Clegane or Beric Dondarrion, and that he would have made a good Hand. Kevan rejects him coolly, and lets Jaime know he knows about the relationship of the twins, Jaime and Queen Cersei Lannister.

After yet another group presents her with a dwarf's head that is not Tyrion's, Cersei walks together with Qyburn to meet the small council. The new Master of Whisperers indicates that he has prepared the "skull" in an ebony box for delivery to Prince Doran, but no mention is made that it belongs to Gregor Clegane.

Victarion has left the defense of Moat Cailin to Ralf Kenning, and sailed the Iron Fleet to Old Wyk for the kingsmoot. When the fleet arrives at Nagga's Cradle, Victarion has them blockade Euron's Silence. The first to greet him on shore is Aeron, and later that night the priest is at his side for the feast. Several captains pledge their voice to Victarion's claim, but Baelor Blacktyde seeks a king who will end the wars, saying,

Aeron is wading in the ocean, berating himself for running from Euron. He considers Nagga's bones, where the Grey King ruled for a thousand years and warred against the Storm God. At dawn, Aeron has his drowned men sound the drums and warhorns to announce the onset of the kingsmoot on Old Wyk. The prophet wishes for Victarion to win the claim, and hopes Euron will make a mistake and declare early.

On the way to the cove where Nimble Dick led the fool and his two companions, Pod catches Dick looking through Brienne's saddlebags. She knew something like this might happen, and warned Pod to keep an eye on him. But having no recourse but to follow Dick, Brienne and Pod continue on their path to Crackclaw Point. Dick tells them some of the history of the region, to pass the monotony of their journey. Brienne's mistrust of Dick has made him take notice, and she considers how easy it is for her to suspect others, after the mistreatments she has suffered in her life. She remembers getting her revenge on several of her false suitors during the mêlée at Bitterbridge, but this has done little to stay her natural distrust.

At a hidden well at Shandystone in the desert of Dorne, Arianne and her most trusted companions are awaiting the arrival of Myrcella and her sworn sword. Although Arianne has the utmost trust in Garin, Drey and Sylva, she is still unsure about Gerold Dayne the Darkstar. She considers his cruel nature and the mystery surrounding him. She is worried that Arys may be wary of him. But if this would happen and they would to come to blows, who would win? Garin warns Arianne that he does not like the man, but she reminds him that they may need his sword and eventually his castle. Later, Darkstar tells her that this scheme to crown Myrcella will not work as she has planned. He then unsheathes his sword, and reveals that you incite a war with steel (meaning they should kill Myrcella).

Every day, the kindly man asks Arya who she is. When she replies "no one", he tells her that she lies, trying to get her to forget her true self and give up her past, but Arya resists. She works hard in the temple, cleaning and doing other chores. She witnesses many people entering the temple, some to light candles, others to curl up near a statue to die, and others to speak in private to the kindly man. When asked whose names she whispers at night, she finally admits that they are people she wants to kill, but the priest tells her that it is the Many-Faced God who determines who shall die, not her. He also finally convinces her to dispose of her possessions, and she does so with all but Needle, which she hides outside the temple under a stone. Once she has done this, the kindly man comes to her and tells her some of their history.

Sansa is now completely in the role of Alayne Stone, and she has considerable influence in the Eyrie. On the balcony of her rooms in the Maiden's Tower, she surveys the armies of the Lords Declarant camped outside the Gates of the Moon. Lord Gilwood Hunter arrived first, and immediately blockaded supplies from reaching the Eyrie. Though they are not yet under siege, the situation looks dire from her standpoint. Lord Robert, even more irritable than normal because there are no eggs or bacon, tells Alayne that he still hears Marillion singing every night. Alayne assures him that the bard is dead, although she has not seen the body, but she herself no longer hears singing. When Littlefinger arrives, he informs them that the Lords Declarant are on their way up to the Eyrie for a parley. He tells Alayne that there will be eight of them, but he is only concerned about Lyn Corbray. We learn that Lyn fought against Jon Arryn at Gulltown at the onset of Robert's Rebellion, but later fought alongside him at the Trident, where he slew Prince Lewyn Martell of the Kingsguard and broke the Dornish line. While his elder brother supports Petyr's position as Lord Protector of the Vale, Ser Lyn has taken up with the Lords Declarant. Bearing the Valyrian sword Lady Forlorn, Ser Lyn is a dangerous and unpredictable man, quick to demand a duel.

Cersei continues to obliviously move from one folly to the next. Angered by Tommen's brazen demand to sit on the Iron Throne and at council, she realizes that Margaery put him up to this. Cersei refuses to give her power up to anyone, at least until Tommen comes of age.

Returning to Maidenpool, Hyle Hunt informs Randyll Tarly that Brienne has killed three of the Bloody Mummers. Tarly again warns her against playing a knight, but Brienne will not give up her mission. She and Podrick meet up with Ser Hyle the next morning, and he tells them of his plan for finding Sandor Clegane. He reveals that the Hound has not joined Beric Dondarrion, and that the Lightning Lord's band had no part in the raid on Saltpans. Lord Tarly has created this rumour in the hopes of turning the smallfolk against Lord Beric. Ser Hyle knows a septon with great knowledge of the Riverlands, and proposes that they accompany the man to Saltpans. When Brienne says she has no intention of traveling with Hunt, he tells her that he is no longer in Lord Tarly's service. They soon depart for Saltpans, while Septon Meribald talks of the gods, his past and the great bands of wolves in the Riverlands led by a demon of a she-wolf. Meribald tells them that they may encounter broken men traumatized by their experiences in war on their way to Quiet Isle, and Brienne surmises that the septon himself once had such an experience before he discovered his piety.

Staying at an inn in Braavos, Sam is nearing wits' end. Dareon has abandoned them for the brothels, Gilly remains inconsolable, and Maester Aemon's health deteriorates daily. To make matters worse, Sam had spent nearly all their coin on their rooms, a healer for Aemon, and passage on a boat, Lady Ushanora, that they wound up unable to board due to the maester's health. Feverish and dying, the maester begs Sam to return to the docks to learn more about this rumor of dragons that Dareon had heard at some winesink. Aemon mumbles to Sam, "Dragons. The grief and glory of my house... My brothers dreamed of dragons too, and the dreams killed them, every one. Sam, we tremble on the cusp of half-remembered prophecies... I should have seen it. Fire consumes, but cold preserves. The Wall..."

Aware that Cersei is trying to rid herself of him, Jaime argues that his place is beside the king, not off laying siege to Riverrun. But his sister responds that she can't rely on Daven, and needs Jaime to defeat Brynden Tully, as well as find out why Gregor's men at Harrenhal have not released Wylis Manderly as the crown requested. She states that Osmund Kettleblack will command the Kingsguard in his absence, although Jaime dislikes the idea.

Cersei and Taena share the queen's litter en route to the Great Sept of Baelor. The lady from Myr is telling Cersei about all the men who are always around Margaery, and how she was present for the bedding at Renly's wedding. Although Taena is not sure if Margaery is still a maiden, she affirms that Renly was aroused. She also lets on that besides all the knights and bards, Pycelle is a frequent visitor of the young queen, and her brother Loras visits perhaps more than any other. They also discuss the new High Septon, a man who was once a "sparrow" and not a member of the Most Devout. This is not only surprising, but also of concern to Cersei, and she considers that she may have to poison this new leader of the Seven, if he becomes unruly.

Victarion Greyjoy's Iron Victory has rammed one of the longships of the Shield Islands. Victarion kills Ser Talbert Serry of Southshield, although the reaver's hand is wounded during the battle. The ironborn's massive fleet is soon victorious in their taking of the Shields which sit at the mouth of the Mander north of the city of Oldtown. It is Victarion's command that won the battle, but it will be King Euron they cheer for engineering their bold attack. Back in his cabin, as the dusky woman Euron gave him tends his wounds, Victarion recalls Aeron's words that he would find a way to remove Euron from the Seastone Chair. He remembers how he had helped capture Lord Baelor Blacktyde, who had refused to acknowledge Euron after the kingsmoot on Old Wyk and paid for it with his life. Asha, however, had escaped the Iron Islands along with those loyal to her.

Jaime's small host reaches Castle Darry, and he finds himself contemplating the genius of his uncle Kevan for his choice of a bride for Lancel, Amerei Frey, whose mother is a Darry.

Upon reaching the Quiet Isle, Brienne and her companions are taken up the path to see the Elder Brother. Brienne mentions to the brother guiding them that she is heading for Saltpans to kill the Hound. This takes the man aback, but he tells them to speak to their elder. They see a huge horse in their stables, obviously a war horse, who has mauled two of the brothers. On a hill, they pass a huge cloaked novice digging graves. The man appears lame, but they cannot see his face.

Margaery is fuming at Cersei and her council that the Throne must respond at once to the ironmen's attack on the Shield Islands. Cersei does not appreciate the young queen's tone, and claims that it must fall to Highgarden to retake "these rocks". Loras Tyrell interjects as his sister seethes, stating that his brothers Willas and Garlan have the men, but not the ships, to win back the islands. He requests that Cersei pull Lord Redwyne's fleet from their siege of Dragonstone, so they may return to gather troops at the Arbor. The Queen Regent denies his request, implying that the Redwyne fleet would not depart until Dragonstone fell. Knowing that Lord Paxter intended to starve them out, Ser Loras asks leave to lead the assault, and promises Cersei Dragonstone within a fortnight. Pleased by this unexpected "gift", Cersei grants him permission.

Reaching the camps besieging Riverrun, Jaime meets with his cousin Ser Daven. The new Warden of the West spits when he discovers that it was Vargo Hoat who had Jaime's hand amputated, informing him that he offered Tywin to forage for Hoat, but he refused, saying that some tasks are fit for lions, but foraging is best left for goats and dogs.

Acclimated to the routine of Cat of the Canals, Arya is learning the Braavosi tongue and trying to learn three new things every time she is sent forth from the House of Black and White, as the kindly man told her she must. Selling clams by day, she sleeps in a bed with Brusco's daughters by night, and for three days during each black moon, she returns to the House of Black and White. She delivers all three things the kindly man wants her to learn, but he still sends her back to Brusco. He tells her of the Many-Faced God; especially how all religions are aware of him, even if they do not worship him. Even within the Seven there exists the Stranger, whom the kindly man calls "Him of Many Faces".

The Cinnamon Wind is somewhere off the coast of Dorne as Sam leads a prayer service to mourn the passing of Aemon Targaryen. Xhondo's information on the three dragons had given Maester Aemon a second wind, but it was not enough. Sam recalls some of the ancient maester's words during the sea voyage from Braavos, "No one ever looked for a girl. It was a prince that was promised... Rhaegar, I thought... The error crept in from the translation. Dragons are neither male nor female... Daenerys is the one, born amidst salt and smoke... Lady Melisandre has misread the signs. Stannis has some of the dragon blood in him, yes... Rhaelle, Egg's little girl, she was how they (the Baratheons) came by it... They must send her a maester. Daenerys must be counseled, taught, protected..." Aemon begged Sam to convince the archmaesters of this, and later rambled some of the following (perhaps prophetic) lines: "a glass candle that could not be lit; eggs that would not hatch; the sphinx was the riddle, not the riddler."

Lord Aurane Waters has returned from Dragonstone with news that the fortress has fallen. This was good news indeed, considering that word from the Reach mentioned the ironmen raiding the Arbor and pushing towards Oldtown. Aurane indicates that Ser Loras was grievously wounded during the assault and lay dying after having had boiling oil poured on him from the walls; he also holds Loras responsible for turning the battle into a massacre, as thousands of the Crown's soldiers died in the storming of Dragonstone's keep, many of them knights or lords. Ecstatic, Cersei had to deliver the news personally to Margaery. The young queen is appalled by Cersei's description of the fate of her brother, and commands Cersei to get out of her quarters. Back in her solar, four separate men bring word on a dwarf sighting, and one brings her a head. However, none of them bear word related to Tyrion, and Cersei sends them away in frustation. Later, in court, Cersei must deal with several unimportant pleas, and then Septon Raynard arrives. Furious that the High Septon himself did not come before her, she scoffs at his words that the Faith is trying to abolish the brothels in the city.

Approaching the inn at the crossroads, Brienne's party encounters many corpses hanging from trees, each with a chunk of rock salt in their mouths. They surmise that these were some of the men responsible for the raid on Saltpans, probably hanged by Lord Beric's outlaw band. Reaching the inn, they meet four girls on the porch, and the oldest addresses them. She asks for silver for a night's lodging, stating the only visitors they get are either sparrows or robbers and worse. When Ser Hyle makes an inquiry regarding her tone, the smith approaches and Brienne is nearly floored by his resemblance to Renly. Inside, Brienne plans to leave before dawn with Podrick only, although she is unsure where to go. At dinner, Septon Meribald leads a prayer, but Gendry does not participate and returns to his forge. One of the orphan boys tells the septon that it is because he worships the Lord of Light. Brienne delivers some food to Gendry and mentions his resemblance to King Robert, but they are interrupted by riders drawing near.

Ser Jaime and Ser Brynden face each other across the drawbridge to Riverrun, alone for a parley during the siege of Riverrun. The Blackfish is aware of the oath Jaime swore to Catelyn, but the member of the Kingsguard makes it known he does not have the Stark girls. He offers Edmure Tully in exchange for Lady Sybell Spicer and her children, but Brynden refuses, telling him he swore to his king to keep his wife safe and won't hand her over to a Frey noose. Jaime responds that the girl has been pardoned and no harm will come to her, nor anyone else if Brynden yields Riverrun; they will be free to go or take the black as they choose, but Brynden dismisses the offer, claiming that he and his men would rather die with swords in their hands than "be paraded through King's Landing to die like Eddard Stark". Brynden adds that he is well provisioned for a siege and the Lannister and Frey casualties will be far higher than his own if they storm Riverrun.

With Pycelle prostrate before her, Cersei accuses him of letting Gyles Rosby die, because she believes he is now taking orders from Margaery. The Grand Maester denies this, explaining that he visits the young queen to give her sleeping potions, but Cersei knows otherwise. Forcing a confession from him that he also brings Margaery moon tea, she then commands him to announce that Lord Rosby's dying wish was to donate all his lands and incomes to the Crown.

Arianne is imprisoned atop the Spear Tower, contemplating her failed scheme. She never expected someone to inform her father of the plan, nor for Hotah to intercept them, and certainly not Gerold Dayne's unprovoked attack on Myrcella. Dayne escaped from Hotah's men, but he left a terrible scar on Myrcella's face, barely missing a beheading stroke as was his apparent intent. Thinking her father would see her within a day, Arianne becomes distraught as days turn into weeks, and although servants come and go with food, none will speak to her. She considers who could have betrayed her, ponders her feelings at the loss of Ser Arys, and thinks of her close relationship with Tyene. She eventually persuades the young serving girl Cedra to deliver a letter to Lord Fowler, knowing that the girl has feelings for Garin (who, Arianne assumes, is imprisoned at Ghaston Grey along with her other co-conspirators). But the next day, Cedra does not return, and Arianne never sees her again during her imprisonment.



Brienne fluctuates between a fever dream and semi-consciousness, as the outlaws transport her severely injured body to Lady Stoneheart. While she is being treated by Jeyne Heddle, Brienne learns that Biter is dead, skewered through the head by a spear wielded by Gendry. Lem, now wearing the Hound's steel dog helm, tells her that Stoneheart wants her hanged for her "crimes". Brienne fully awakens in a cave, where she meets Thoros of Myr. The red priest is a ghost of his former self, and he informs her about the current state of the former brotherhood without banners: "Lord Beric's fire has gone out of this world... A grimmer shadow leads us in his place... War makes monsters of us all."

Accompanied by six newly reinstated Warrior's Sons, Septa Moelle brings word to the court that Queen Margaery and her cousins have been imprisoned at the Great Sept of Baelor for adultery and high treason. The Septa reveals that Margaery's maidenhead is not intact. Grand Maester Pycelle also reluctantly discloses to the Septa that Margaery has had him mix moon tea on many occasions. Leaving the throne room confident that Margaery was finished, Cersei agrees with Aurane Waters' request to launch his new dromonds, in case Lord Mace Tyrell decides to march on King's Landing to save his daughter. Lord Orton Merryweather remarks that the High Septon may want to try Margaery himself, as the Faith used to do. Cersei hopes he is right.

Emmon Frey, now Lord of Riverrun in fact as well as name, demands Edmure Tully's head. Ser Jaime will not accede, though he is sorely tempted since Edmure betrayed his concessions by helping his uncle, Ser Brynden, to escape the castle when he turned it over to the Lannisters. Despite a massive search for Lord Hoster's brother, Jaime knows the Blackfish will not be found, nor will he abandon the fight. Before being escorted west to Casterly Rock as a noble prisoner, Ser Edmure speaks his mind, "You will never know how sick it makes me to see you in this room, Kingslayer. You will never know how much I despise you."

The Cinnamon Wind passes through the Redwyne Straits on her way to Oldtown. Twice they evade and once drive off longships of the ironmen, before they reach their destination and undergo customs inspections. The ironborn now control many of the outlying towns and fortifications surrounding the Arbor and along the Mander nearly to Oldtown, having sacked Ryamsport and taken Vinetown and Starfish Harbor. They have also been raiding ships in the area. Sam learns that even Oldtown is at risk until Lord Paxter Redwyne can bring his fleet back from Dragonstone. Meanwhile, Lord Leyton Hightower has not left his tower in years, while his sons struggle to protect the great city. His youngest son, Ser Humfrey, has sailed to the Free Cities to hire sellsails or persuade his half-sister Lynesse to loan him some of the Archon of Lys' ships. As Sam prepares to disembark for the Citadel, he considers whether it will be safe for Gilly at Horn Hill, since it will only have a small regiment of guards left. Fortunately, Sam knows that Gilly will be safe aboard the Cinnamon Wind, at least until he can learn more of the situation in Oldtown.

The skinchanger Varamyr, who has been injured during his flight from the battle beneath the Wall, is plotting to take over another body as he is dying.

Tyrion is in the cabin of a ship fleeing across the narrow sea, perpetually drunk and wracked with guilt over his betrayal of the Lannisters and murder of his father, as well as his anxiety over the fate of Tysha, whom he now knows to be the only woman ever to have truly loved him.

During the night, Daenerys is presented with the body of Stalwart Shield, one of her Unsullied soldiers, who has been killed by the Sons of the Harpy. When day has come, Daenerys holds court, where the last petitioner presents her with a terrible

In Jon's dream he sees through the eyes of his direwolf, Ghost, who is hunting in the woods somewhere south of the Wall. In the dream Ghost is aware of the presence of the other stark direwolves Nymeria, Shaggydog and Summer. Jon is awakened from the dream by Jeor Mormont's raven. He resides in the old quarters of Donal Noye, since Stannis occupies the King’s Tower and the Lord Commander’s Tower has burned down. He reflects that Ghost knows that Grey Wind is dead, but his other brothers' wolves are still alive. His wolf dreams are becoming more vivid and more frequent, and he wonders if part of Bran and Rickon survive in their wolves.

Bran is making his way through the haunted forest, in search of the three-eyed crow, accompanied by the Reeds, Hodor, and Coldhands. Bran skinchanges into Summer frequently, and even into Hodor, although Hodor seems to dislike the experience. Coldhands is riding on an elk and is accompanied by ravens. Jojen is becoming ill and weak.

Tyrion has been smuggled out of Pentos inside the litter of Illyrio Mopatis, and they are now on their way to the Rhoyne. Illyrio explains that Tyrion and a sellsword called Griff will meet Daenerys in Volantis, while he remains to "smooth the way" for them in Pentos. Illyrio tells Tyrion that Daenerys has need of cunning men such as him, but Tyrion is suspicious: why does Illyrio have a stake in helping Daenerys claim the Iron Throne? Instead of answering, the merchant tells of how when he first met her, Daenerys was young and fearful and her brother Viserys was foolish and greedy, and Mopatis had to post guards on her door to prevent her brother from "undoing years of planning" by entering her chambers and raping her before she was given to Khal Drogo. He recounts how the meek little girl he knew was reborn in the Dothraki sea as a true Targaryen, before turning to Slaver's Bay, conquering Astapor, cowing Yunkai and sacking Meereen. He now expects her to make her way to Volantis - where she will meet Tyrion and Griff with enough forces to carry her to Westeros.

Quentyn Martell, son of the Prince of Dorne, is in Volantis, disguised as a wineseller's servant. He and his servant are attempting to book a passage to Meereen aboard ship, but even in the massive port of Volantis they are unable to find a single ship willing to risk the trip to Slaver's Bay while there is war brewing and the slave trade and fighting pits are both terminated.[1][2] Quentyn is anxious trying to get to Daenerys in Meereen as his father commanded, intent on marrying her. He has heard that she is the most beautiful woman in the world.[3]

This chapter covers the events of Chapter 5 of A Feast for Crows, but from Jon's perspective rather than Samwell Tarly's.

As dawn breaks Tyrion awakes to find the litter has stopped. He meets Haldon Halfmaester and Ser Rolly Duckfield, who take on supplies from Illyrio before leaving with Tyrion. Illyrio tells them the dwarf's name is Yollo, although Tyrion, worried they will realize the name is a lie, claims it is his name in Pentos and his name is Hugor Hill. The pair tease Tyrion with tales of river pirates and the Shrouded Lord. Tyrion and Haldon test each others' book knowledge while Duck recounts the events that led to his knighting at the hands of Griff and his unusual name. They ride until they reach the Little Rhoyne at Ghoyan Drohe, where a poleboat, the Shy Maid, is waiting for them.

In the middle of a storm, Davos is marched before Godric Borrell, Lord of Sweetsister, in his castle Breakwater at Sisterton. He was captured by Borrell's men while trying to find passage off the island to White Harbor. Salladhor Saan's fleet had been smashed by storms since heading south from the Wall, until Saan, frustrated by Stannis Baratheon's continual inability to make good on his promises, abandoned his cause, leaving his old friend Davos on Sweetsister after Davos refused to journey south with him. Davos conceals this fact from Borrell, telling him that Saan has traveled south to raid the Lannisters at Stannis' command. Borell informs Davos that Lysa Arryn is dead - and Tywin Lannister, at the hand of his dwarf son. We also learn that a shipload of Freys have reached White Harbor, with its Lord, Wyman Manderly of White Harbor having pledged his allegiance to King Tommen. The news dismays Davos, but he hides his reaction and asks Borrell to help him get to White Harbor.

At Castle Black Melisandre is preparing to burn Mance Rayder in a cage made out of wood from the haunted forest, despite Jon's pleas to King Stannis to spare him. At the sight of the cage, Mance's courage fails and he goes to his death begging for mercy, denying his kingship and his name and shrieking of witchcraft. Melisandre burns the Horn of Joramun as well, so that the Wall can never fall. As the cage burns Jon orders his bowmen to shoot Mance with arrows, a fitting end for a man of the Night's Watch. Melisandre proclaims to the assembled wildlings that Stannis is their true King, Azor Ahai reborn. Stannis draws Lightbringer which is blindingly bright, and promises all who serve him food, land and justice. The gates of the Wall are opened and most of the captive wildlings enter to kneel before Stannis, feeding the fire with fragments of weirwood, pieces of the old gods to feed R'hllor's fires.

There have been more murders by the Harpy's Sons on the streets of Meereen. This time they involved an attack on fully-armed Unsullied in pairs. Nine died, including one of Missandei's brothers, Mossador. Once again, Daenerys orders an investigation, permitting Skahaz mo Kandaq to torture a wineseller when she discovers that three freedmen were among the slain. Furious, Dany orders the Unsullied to restrict themselves to patrolling the walls, and imposes a blood tax on the great families of Meereen to fund a new mixed force of freedmen and shavepates to patrol the city streets under the control of Skahaz. The families of Zhak and Merreq are preparing to leave the city; the Queen orders that their wealth must remain behind, as well as some of their children in her custody.

Big Walder and Little Walder enter a cell in the dungeons of the Dreadfort. Cowering before them is a weak and foul-smelling man, who knows his name is Reek - but that he once had another name.

Coldhands has brought Bran, Hodor, Jojen, Meera and Summer to a steep snow-covered hill. When his elk died, Coldhands butchered it for food, but all the steaks are gone now and they are all weak from hunger and cold, particularly Jojen.

Aboard the Shy Maid, Griff has banned Tyrion, who is still playing the role of Hugor Hill, from drinking wine as they journey down the Rhoyne. Septa Lemore bathes naked every morning in the river, much to Tyrion's delight, but he notes she is not as virginal as she appears - Tyrion notices that she has stretch marks from childbirth.

As the Merry Midwife arrives in White Harbor, Davos notices that the city is newly fortified. He is initially hopeful that he may be able to persuade Lord Wyman Manderly to ally with King Stannis - until he sees the Lionstar, a warship bearing King Tommen's standard, docked at the harbor.

Daenerys is hosting Xaro Xhoan Daxos, the Qartheen merchant. After viewing a dance by his naked male and female slaves, they discuss Dany's situation since she left Qarth. Xaro is aware of the activities of the Sons of the Harpy and flatteringly tells Daenerys that he fears for her safety. He scoffs at her attempts to abolish slavery in Meereen and tells her that the Thirteen are willing to trade with the city - in slaves. He offers her thirteen galleys if she leaves for Westeros immediately. Dany tells him she will have her men inspect the ships, and refuses his feigned advances to her.

During an inspection of the stores, Jon is informed by Bowen Marsh and some other stewards that there is not enoughto feed the Night's Watch, the wildlings, and Stannis' men through the winter. He grimly orders a cut in rations, though he knows it will make him unpopular, and tells Marsh they will find a way to feed everyone.

Tyrion and his companions aboard the Shy Maid continue their way down the Rhoyne. As they encounter heavy amounts of fog in the Sorrows, severely hindering their visibility, Ysilla insists that it is not a common fog, claiming that restless spirits surround them.

Davos is held for eighteen days in a large, airy, handsomely furnished chamber with guards at the door and a view of the city's streets and the harbor in the New Castle at White Harbor. The Merry Midwife left after four days.



Following the departure of Stannis's host, Castle Black is in a quiescent state, with the exception of the training yard. Although Stannis has vacated Mormont's former chambers in King's Tower, Jon does not move in, knowing that others may misconstrue the move as a sign that he does not expect Stannis to return.

Tyrion is dreaming of his lord father and the Shrouded Lord. In his dream, they are one and the same. He wakes up with his mouth dry and rusty with the taste of blood and his heart hammering in his chest.

Galazza Galare, the Green Grace, appears before Daenerys to offer once more the suggestion that she marry. She suggests as a suitor Hizdahr zo Loraq, who is waiting for her summons. Dany agrees to speak with him, and though neither of them love nor even express much physical attraction to one another, Hizdahr promises to put an end to the attacks by the Harpy's Sons. Dany tasks him with ninety days in which she does not want a single attack as demonstration of Hizdahr's promise. If he succeeds, Dany agrees that she may accept his wedding proposal. After he leaves, Barristan Selmy expresses his disapproval, but Dany believes that she still has ninety days to figure out another plan, to see if Hizdahr can prevent the attacks, and if he can she will marry him out of duty to her people.

After the disappearance of Tyrion Lannister,[1] Lord Jon Connington decided to continue their route to Volon Therys. There, the former lord of Griffin's Roost, Haldon and Prince Aegon arrive at the camp of the mercenary Golden Company to meet their officers.

Quentyn Martell and his two companions have joined the Windblown, a sellsword company of two thousand people[1] led by a Pentoshi noble known as the Tattered Prince, under false names. Quentyn has assumed the name "Frog", Gerris Drinkwater now goes by "Dornish Gerrold" or "Drink", and Archibald Yronwood is now "Greenguts". Their goal is to reach Slaver's Bay and eventually Daenerys Targaryen in Meereen without drawing too much danger or attention, although they keep that a secret from their colleagues.

Asha is at Deepwood Motte with her men, having fled the Iron Islands after the Kingsmoot. She receives news from Barrowton that Moat Cailin has fallen to Ramsay Bolton.[1] She thinks about a previous message from Stannis Baratheon asking for homage. Bolton's message is written in the blood of the Ironmen and comes with a piece of Theon Greyjoy's skin as a warning. [2]



Jon sends Alliser Thorne out with Dywen and one other man to range beyond the Wall. Thorne believes that Jon is sending him out to die, though Dywen mockingly says that they will teach him to be a true ranger. Thorne tells Jon that he will not refuse and give him the pleasure of cutting his head off as he did with Janos Slynt. Thorne warns Jon that men killed by the Others still remember and he will come back if he is killed by one. Jon thinks to himself that he hopes Alliser Thorne does come back, alive, as he is still a brother in the Night's Watch. Jon is also sending out two other rangings, one led by Black Jack Bulwer and another by Kedge Whiteye.

Davos, still imprisoned in the Wolf's Den, is awaiting his death and hopes that he will at least die honorably, losing his head first and not his hands. He passes his time chatting to the guards, gaining a few favours in the form of candles, books, paper & a quill, as well as learning a little more about the general history of the north. Davos writes a few letters to his sons to be delivered upon his death. It is then that Robett Glover appears at his door and politely asks him to follow; Davos is wary but notes his mannerisms and follows.

Daenerys begins every morning my counting the enemy ships in the harbour. Today she has counted roughly twenty-five. She has an argument with her admiral Groleo, who is advising her to send her dragons to attack the enemy fleet. Daenarys tells him to attack with ships, but he replies that she dismantled his ships, and all the timber in twenty leagues has been burned so he can build no more.

Melisandre is in her chambers, looking into the fire and trying to receive her visions. When she looks for Stannis, she sees eyeless faces staring out, crying blood. Then she sees towers by the sea followed by skulls rising out of the ocean turning to mist and great winged beasts flying in the sky. She tries to see the girl on the fleeing horse again as she knows Jon will want to know more, but she cannot find anything. She does see that there is death around Jon and that dangers and enemies lurk all around him.

Ben Bones, Skinner, Sour Alyn, and Damon Dance-for-Me return to the keep of House Stout from a search for some Frey men with Ramsay Bolton. Theon knows this means that Ramsay may want to take his anger out on someone, most likely Reek. He knows that Ramsay has been forced to restrain his violent outbursts in Barrowton as he needs the loyalty of the Dustins and Ryswells, but what he does behind closed doors is none of their concern. Ramsay then throws a severed head for Theon to catch, which he cannot because of his maimed hands. He does not recognize the head as it is covered in blood, rotting, and bursting with maggots.

Tyrion is aboard the Selaesori Qhoran,[1] a trading cog on the way to Qarth. He watches the evening prayer led by Moqorro, a red priest from the Summer Islands and Benerro's right hand. Tyrion ask Moqorro what he sees in the flames, to which he replies dragons, true and false, with Tyrion in the middle of it all.

Bran, Hodor, Jojen, and Meera are still dwelling in the cave of the children of the Forest and exploring its chambers. Bran uses his ability as a warg and skinchanger to enter Summer and Hodor. They begin to name some of the "children" as their own names are unpronounceable by the human tongue. Bran names one of the females Leaf, as she is always adorned with leaves. She is one of the few children who can speak the Common Tongue. Others are called Ash, Scales, Black Knife, Snowylocks, and Coals.

A respite at the falling of snow motivates Jon to range beyond the Wall, leading the new recruits of the Night's Watch who follow the old gods to the same grove of weirwoods in the haunted forest where he and Sam swore their vows.[1] Scouting ahead of them go Tom Barleycorn, Big Liddle and Luke of Longtown.

Daenerys visits the thousands of Astapori camped outside Meereen. She finds them sick and dying of the bloody flux, and walks among them with her Bloodriders. She does not fear catching the bloody flux because she thinks that the blood of the dragon does not get sick. She sends Aggo back to Meereen to fetch Grey Worm and 50 Unsullied to help wash and feed the living and burn the dead. Grey Worm asks for permission to allow some Unsullied to bathe in the sea to be purified by their goddess.

The Arya impostor, Jeyne Poole, is preparing for her marriage to Ramsay Bolton, out of fear more than anything. Theon reminds her that she should think of herself as Arya Stark at all times in order to avoid the dangers of enraging Ramsay. Her plight moves Theon considerably.

Balon Swann has arrived in Sunspear,[1] with the skull of Gregor Clegane. He asks that Doran Martell takes his seat in the small council, and that Myrcella Baratheon and Trystane Martell accompany them to King's Landing. His captain of the guard, Areo Hotah, notes that many of the Dornish nobility present, including the bastard daughters of Prince Oberyn Martell do not join in the toast Prince Doran makes to King Tommen I Baratheon. Hotah also notes that Balon would be more of a challenge to defeat than Arys Oakheart was.

Jon sends Val to the north, to find Tormund Giantsbane and offer him and his followers shelter south of the Wall. Bowen Marsh, Septon Cellador, and Othell Yarwyck talk to Jon with various complaints; they disapprove of Leathers as Castle Black's master-at-arms, Satin as Jon's steward and his decision to negotiate with Tormund and allow him and his men through the Wall. They are also nervous about the fact Jon is keeping two corpses in the ice cells, and react with outrage and horror when Jon reveals he is waiting for them to rise, ignoring Jon's argument that the Watch knows next to nothing about the wights or their masters, and need to learn more if they are to defeat them. Overlooking their protests, Jon tells them of a large group of wildlings making for Hardhome at the east coast north of the Wall, following the witch Mother Mole who claims they will find ships there to bring them across the Narrow Sea.[1] Jon fears they will die there, but when he gets only indifference from the others at the prospect of thousands of dead wildlings, Jon finally loses patience. Angrily asking if they don't realise the truth or are just ignoring it, Jon points out that if they do nothing, the wildlings at Hardhome will die in their thousands, and when they are dead, in time they will rise up again with blue eyes and cold hands, and the Others will have thousands more wights under their control to send at the Wall.

Still on board the Selaesori Qhoran, Tyrion jousts on Penny's 'Pretty Pig', for the amusement of the crew in hopes of sweetening their mood, while the ship has been floating becalmed in the Gulf of Grief. Attempts to tow the cog north in hope of finding a breeze, using small rowing boats, have been unsuccessful.

A winter snowstorm has hit Winterfell. Roose Bolton comments that the northern gods do not favour Stannis as he is at the mercy of the weather while they are sheltered in Winterfell. His men cheer, but Theon does not join in and notes that the Freys do not join in either, unfamiliar with the north that has claimed three of their lives already.



Daenerys Targaryen wakes up beside Daario Naharis. She is hesitant about her upcoming wedding. Daario asks her to marry him instead, but truly he knows that she cannot and will not. Outside the Yunkai are massing more ships, building siege weapons to throw rocks at the city. However, no rams or siege towers are built, as the siege is intended to cause famine and disease to force Meereen to succumb.

Queen Selyse arrives at Castle Black with Shireen, Patchface, Axell Florent, and others, all on their way to the Nightfort. They are accompanied by Tycho Nestoris, an emissary of the Iron Bank of Braavos. Jon warns Selyse that the Nightfort is still mostly in ruins and advises her that they may be most comfortable at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea.

Arya wakes up after entering into Nymeria again; she remembers being feared, but only when she dreams. Arya is still in the House of Black and White in Braavos. She has been blinded, to train her to use her other senses: recognize lies from the tone of voice, walk and work without seeing, even fight. She calls herself Blind Beth now. She goes over her list of names, but remembers that that was someone else, not her, not Blind Beth.

One of Roger Ryswell's men has been found dead at the inner wall of Winterfell. Theon hears Lord Roger Ryswell declare that he must've fallen off the wall drunk, but he suspects it might have been murder, as do some others.

All remaining crewmen and passengers of the Selaesori Qhoran are sold into slavery in a Yunkish camp near Meereen. Tyrion and Penny are sold together to Yezzan zo Qaggaz, an immensely fat Yunkish (though a Westerosi sellsword tries hard to buy them-Tyrion suspects this is because the sellsword knows him and wants to claim Cersei's bounty on his head) and put under the charge of his retainer called Nurse.

Jaime lifts the siege at Raventree Hall. On his way to Riverrun and King's Landing, he encounters Brienne of Tarth.

Melisandre is conducting the marriage ceremony between Alys Karstark and Sigorn, the new Magnar of Thenn. Only a few brothers of the Night's Watch attend, along with Queen Selyse, her queen's men, and a few king's men that Stannis Baratheon left behind. Meanwhile, Jon Snow has ordered Clydas to dispatch a raven to Deepwood Motte in order to warn Stannis of Arnolf Karstark's treachery.[1]

Hizdahr holds a feast in Meereen with the Yunkish lords and sellsword captains in attendance, to sign the peace and celebrate the imminent reopening of the fighting pits. However, the sellswords and slaves from Yunkai and its allies are still besieging Meereen. Just as in Meereen, the bloody flux has been affecting the Yunkish troops as well.

Theon Greyjoy is with some of the spearwives, Rowan as well as Abel. He tells them that it is madness to try to escape as Ramsay Bolton will chase them and hunt them down with his dogs. Abel replies that Stannis must be close by the sounds of the horns and it is unlikely Ramsay would ride out into that. Theon also begs that he not be allowed to fall back into Ramsay's hands alive, to which Squirrel replies "Abel's word".

Daenerys bathes in preparation for her visit with her husband to Meereen's fighting pits. Ser Barristan Selmy tells her that the girl Meris, whom they set free, said that the Windblown were willing to join her cause, if Dany gave the Tattered Prince Pentos. Dany cannot agree to pay this as Illyrio is from that city and has helped her more than anyone. Her obligations are to him first.

Jon treats with Tormund Giantsbane. His four thousand wildlings will be allowed past the wall, including mammoths and giants. They must leave one hundred boys as hostages at Castle Black, and yield all valuables to pay for food. The mammoths are to go the long way around through Eastwatch while the rest are allowed to go through the gates.

Cersei is still a prisoner of the Faith. She wonders when Jaime will be coming for her, in addition to wondering what has happened to Loras Tyrell as last she heard, he lay dying from his wounds on Dragonstone. She only ever sees three people which are her gaolers Septa Unella, Septa Moelle, and Septa Scolera. Her last visitor was Qyburn. She hates all three of them as much as those she assumes have betrayed her, blaming Osney Kettleblack, Orton Merryweather, Harys Swyft, Aurane Waters and Grand Maester Pycelle. She questions whether she should include Jaime in that group but will not believe it. He would not abandon her, she assumes.

Daenerys has not returned, many fear her dead. The Dothraki are searching for her across the Worm River. Strong Belwas is still in mortal danger from the poisoned locusts that he ate during the reopening of the fighting pits,[1] and Ser Barristan Selmy does not trust the Blue Graces that are taking care of him now. Jhogo, Daario Naharis, Admiral Groleo, and Hero of the Unsullied all remain prisoners of the Yunkai'i.[2]

Victarion Greyjoy is anchored near the Isle of Cedars, right outside Slaver's Bay, to find Daenerys Targaryen. He was sent by his brother King Euron Greyjoy to command the Iron Fleet and bring Dany to him, but Victarion means to take her to wife himself. Victarion's shield hand was hurt fighting Talbert Serry in the Battle of the Shield Islands, and the wound has festered. Maester Kerwin has had little success treating the wound. Victarion learned that the strong Volantene fleet is on their way to Meereen, too, while his own fleet was scattered on their way and only half have come back together. The 54th ship to arrive, the Grief, has happened upon the red priest Moqorro, who was swept overboard the Selaesori Qhoran when Tyrion traveled her to Meereen. He claims to have seen in the flames that Victarion would die unless the priest helped him. Moqorro succeeds in healing him, and Victarion has the maester killed and makes for Meereen.

Yezzan zo Qaggaz is dying of the bloody flux. A healer explains to Sweets that the only help for Yezzan is good clean water. Nurse also got the bloody flux and died the night before after Tyrion gave him dogtail soup with silver mushrooms in the broth. Tyrion asks Scar, a soldier slave in Yezzan's ownership, to send 2 men to get fresh clean water for Yezzan. Scar refuses because he will not take orders from a slave, even though he himself is a slave. He tells Tyrion to get the water himself with Penny. Tyrion asks for the mule and the cart to get the water. Scar refuses but gives them Jorah Mormont to help get the water. The three of them travel through the camp to the nearest well south and west of a trebuchet, the Harridan. On the way, Tyrion sees defenses being built to defend against the possible return of Drogon, although he knows that most of these will prove useless against dragons. Tyrion knows that a dragon's eyes are its only weak spot, and not the underbelly or throat as old wives' tales claim. While waiting at the well, they hear the latest news and rumors from other slaves, who are discussing the event at Daznak's Pit. It is argued whether Daenerys Targaryen flew off on the dragon or died trying. Tyrion states she did not die because her body was not found. He briefly thinks on the moment when he almost revealed his identity to her, only to stop out of fear Barristan Selmy would prejudice Daenerys against him out of contempt for House Lannister.

Tormund Giantsbane along with over three thousand wildlings pass the Wall at Castle Black. The price of their entry, which was negotiated between Jon and Tormund, is that the wildlings will yield all valuables so that they can be sold for food, as well as one hundred boys as hostages. Initially, two girls are included in the one hundred hostages, although Jon spots them and they are replaced by two new boys. Tormund voluntarily includes his own son as a hostage as a sign of good faith. Jon decides to take him on as his own squire.

Ser Barristan attends Hizdahr zo Loraq's court under the unease that Daenerys Targaryen's absence brings.

Gerris Drinkwater reports having spoken to Beans, Books, and Old Bone Bill. In exchange for some gold, the three members of the Windblown agreed to tell the Tattered Prince that the three Dornishmen would like to meet. Despite successfully delivering the message, Drinkwater insists the group should heed Barristan Selmy’s warning, leave Meereen for Volantis, and ultimately return to Dorne. Quentyn wants to leave for Westeros as well, but fears arriving empty-handed, as he worries he will disappoint his father and Lord Yronwood, and face mockery by the Sand Snakes should he do so. Quentyn tells his companions they can leave without him, but they choose to stay.

Jon Connington and the Golden Company have landed at Cape Wrath in Westeros, and manage to seize Griffin's Roost and other small castles by taking them unawares. The taking of Griffin's Roost was quite easy; the Golden Company only lost four men in the attack. Any raven trying to leave the castle was shot down, followed shortly by the castle's maester being thrown from his tower. After that, what was left of the garrison surrendered.

Asha Greyjoy is still a prisoner of Stannis Baratheon at the crofters' village between the lakes, being guarded by Alysane Mormont. While they thought they would be only three days from Winterfell, the snows have kept them stranded for nineteen days. Food has become a major concern. The supply of fish from the lake has been diminishing, they have already been relying on their dying horses as a source of food for a while now, and foraging has brought little result. Some men have even begun to resort to cannibalism: four men from House Peasebury were caught eating parts of a dead man from House Fell.

Victarion Greyjoy continues on his way to Meereen. Despite his crew's unease at Moqorro's continued presence, Victarion insists that the Red God will help them on their journey. Though his arm and hand are now burned, they are stronger than ever. He says, “Two gods are with me now...No foe can stand before two gods.”

After a gathering of eleven Faceless Men, Arya is interrogated by plague face and deemed ready for her first assassination. Arya disguises herself again as Cat of the Canals and returns to Brusco's. While selling seafood at the Purple Harbor, Arya observes her target, an old man who sells insurance for captains, shipowners, and other merchants. When the kindly man suggests that the man might not be paying out for claims as he should, Arya determines that a family member of a client has prayed for the man's death at the House of Black and White. Arya eventually decides she will kill her target with poison, which the waif then helps her prepare.

Cersei is forced on a walk of atonement from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep, as penance for her confessed sins. It is the only way to escape the sept, as her uncle Kevan will not oppose the Faith and Cersei does not have enough friends in the sept to risk a trial like Margaery Tyrell; her only hope is a trial by battle. Cersei feels fear at the thought of being paraded through the streets naked, remembering the violence the smallfolk caused during the riots in King's Landing, but reassures herself that no harm will come to her.

Tyrion has made an agreement with Ben Plumm to join the Second Sons. He signs a number of agreements that he will pay about 50 higher ranking members of the company 100 gold dragons. This amount increases for the higher ranking officers, and for Plumm himself, he must sign a contract for 100,000 dragons along with land and a lordship. After this, he signs the register of the Second Sons using his own blood as ink.

Ser Barristan meets with Skahaz mo Kandaq again, and they go through with their plan to seize Hizdahr and the city, and have it ruled by a council until Daenerys's return. They decide that their word for going ahead with the plan will be "Groleo," in reference to the hostage that was slain by the Yunkai'i. Skahaz reveals that he was present in the throne room when Bloodbeard and the slaver lords made their insult, and that he and every one of the Brazen Beasts present would have killed the Yunkish delegation in an instant had Hizdahr given the command, raging that the Yunkish would never have dared do such a thing to Daenerys. The Shavepate goes on to explain to Ser Barristan that Hizdahr's horrified reaction to Groleo's severed head was a sham and the slavers couldn't care less about Yurkhaz zo Yunzak's death in the pit; the whole thing was arranged so as to give Hizdahr a pretext to kill the queen's dragons before Volantis's fleet arrives.

Quentyn goes ahead with his plan to steal the dragons. With the help of the Windblown Company, they make it to the pit where Rhaegal and Viserion are kept. There, however, they use the codeword "dog" on the Brazen Beasts, who are actually part of the scheme to overthrow the king that very night. A fight ensues, and the four guards are slain, although Quentyn is almost slain by a spear. They enter and find that Rhaegal has also broken his chains since he was last in the pit, and that Viserion has created a cave for himself in the ceiling of the pit. Viserion is first attracted to Pretty Meris, as he is looking for Daenerys, but then tries to exit the pit. Throughout this encounter, Quentyn tries to dominate the dragons like he had seen Daenerys do with Drogon, but when he strikes Viserion with a whip, Rhaegal spews fire on him, setting him aflame.

Jon means to lead men to Hardhome to rescue the wildlings and men of the Night's Watch trapped there. Queen Selyse and Melisandre discourage him, and want to leave them to their fate. However, Jon is determined to lead a rescue mission.

It is raining heavily in Meereen, for which Barristan Selmy is grateful; otherwise the fires caused during Viserion and Rhaegal's rampage might have consumed the entire city. There is no sign of the two dragons: they do not like the rain any more than men. Quentyn Martell is dead; it took three days for him to die. Out of respect for the prince, Ser Barristan had him placed in the queen's bed, the same one he crossed half the world to reach. Missandei is the only one he could get to help tend Quentyn, for none of the cupbearers were willing and the Blue Graces never responded to his summons; he suspects the pale mare has carried them off. Missandei asks what is to be done with Quentyn's body and Barristan replies that they will find a way to send him back to Dorne, though he is unsure how.

Daenerys is walking back south through the Dothraki Sea towards Meereen, following a small rivulet that she thinks will flow into the Skahazadhan. She has spent her time flying Drogon,[1] but could not make him take her back.

Lord Regent Kevan Lannister is hosting a small council meeting in the Red Keep's throne room; neither Queen Margaery nor Cersei are present, nor is Tommen, as Kevan thinks it kinder to let him spend as much time as possible with his mother before her trial and possible execution. The lord of Griffin's Roost, Ronnet Connington stands before them, insisting that he is loyal to King Tommen and uninvolved with whoever claims to be his uncle Jon Connington and the Targaryen pretender he has brought with him, who have landed with the Golden Company in the Stormlands, attacking towns and villages as they march on Storm's End.[1] Ronnet begs to prove his loyalty in battle, but the new Hand of the King Mace Tyrell refuses, and orders Ronnet kept in his quarters for the moment, in addition to sending the men-at-arms Jaime sent to accompany Connington south - all former thugs of Gregor Clegane's - to the Night's Watch.

